---
title: credit where credit is due
layout: post
comments: true
date: 2005-11-15 05:54:59
categories:
    - crm
    - dell
---
In an earlier
[post](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2005/10/29/beware-of-shopping-at-dell-computers/),
I moaned about Dell's opaque pricing model on their UK Web site.
However, people (especially me) are very quick to moan and complain
but often slow to give thanks and appreciation.

I subsequently contacted Dell Customer Services to complain that the
invoice was for a different amount agreed on the phone (strong case)
and the fact I discovered that I could configure an identical PC for
an even lower price (weaker argument).

The lady from Dell Customer Services initially suggested that I cancel
the original order and simply place another order online at the lower
price. I pointed out that this was a little silly as it would mean
cancelling an order for one computer and adding a new order for a
brand new computer with the identical specification.

In any event, it transpired that the PC had already been dispatched
from Dell to the courier company, so I would have to call a different
department 'Pre Sales Delivery' to cancel the order.

The gentleman in 'Pre Sales Delivery' was more helpful and agreed that
cancelling the current order was ludicrous. He offered me a
All-In-One-Printer free of charge. While this was a nice gesture, I
told him I already had a printer. He then offered me a digital camera
free of charge but I already had one of those too. I stood my ground
and insisted on the refund and he finally agreed.

The gentleman also gave me his direct email and the name of his
supervisor in case of any subsequent issues with the refund. So, I am
pleased to say that Dell honoured the lowest price for the PC. It was
inconvenient, took a little persistence and a few phone calls but for
54GBP it was well worth it.
