---
title: Barstool correspondent
layout: post
comments: true
date: '2005-11-22 06:18:30'
categories:
    - football
---
One of the advantages of working away from home is that you are
compelled to seek out exotic locations to follow the fortunes of MUFC
in the Champions League.

Sometimes these exotic locations are abroad. I am currently in the
South of France which is a very pleasant place to be (now that those
pesky riots have subsided).

I have to get a taxi from the French 'Silicon Valley' to venture into
a real city with real people in order to watch MUFC play Villarreal.

Ideal location. English pub. Almost empty. Barstool free. English
commentary. Barman who can understand 'Une autre bier, s'il' vous
plait'.

Second half. An Irish trio arrive, one of whom who loudly proclaims
(for no obvious reason) that Paul Scholes doesn't care any more. Paul
Scholes jacked it in for England as he didn't want to travel any more.
Apparently, Paul Scholes loves his family and wanted to spend more
time with his children. Paul Scholes can no longer be bothered for
MUFC either.

Apparently Paul Scholes earns too much money and doesn't realise that
he has the rest of his life (after reaching 32 years of age when he
will be 'finished') to spend with his precious wife and family.

After a few beers, I am dying to say 'Listen, mate. I couldn't care
less if Paul Scholes quit United tomorrow to spend more time with his
family and children. He has given me more pleasure over the last 10
years than anyone. After Roy Keane, he is probably my favourite
player. Personally, I think he might well walk out and offer to play
for Oldham free of charge for the rest of the season but I really
don't care. The fact is Paul Scholes is a hero. Paul Scholes is a
Manchester United legend.'

But, being English, I sit in silence and say nothing.
