---
title: Ingres, OpenIngres and OpenSource
layout: post
comments: true
date: 2005-11-11 01:52:32
categories:
    - ingres
---
I used to work for Ingres (in London) who were a fantastic company to
work for. Amazingly, they are the only company I have ever worked for
to use newsgroups for internal technical discussions and knowledge
sharing instead of email aliases. I once read that processing an
individual email costs a company 10 cents.

In the early 90's, Ingres was under commercial pressue from another
large relational database vendor, Oracle. Instead of responding to
this challenge, Ingres tended to 'fiddle while Rome burned', discuss
the API naming convention by committee and stoutly defend the
technical purity of page level locking (Oracle supported row level
locking and capitalised heavily) from a lofty ivory tower.

Eventually, Computer Associates took over Ingres which most staff
viewed as the end of the world. The truth was that CA saved Ingres
from Chapter 11 (bankruptcy).

Although I had never visited Alameda and Islandia (Ingres' and CA's
respective corporate headquarters), I still have this vision of hard
nosed businessmen in sharp suits invading the Alameda campus to
interview all these bearded techies in sandals.

On the day of the takeover, Oracle parked a truck outside Ingres' UK
offices with a billboard 'Oracle are hiring now'. The story got a lot
of coverage in the UK computer press. Once again, superb marketing
from Oracle.

The Ingres engineers left the company in droves, formed self-help
groups and arranged annual wakes to commemorate the anniversary of the
black day.

CA subsequently rebranded the product OpenIngres but it largely
disappeared from view into CA's vast portfolio of thousands of
different software products.

So, it was nice to see [Ingres](http://www.ingres.com/) back in the
news this week as CA announced that Ingres Corporation will be once
again be a separate company and the product will be available as an
Open Source database.
