---
date: 2005-11-06 19:17:47
title: How to write for your blog
layout: post
comments: true
categories:
    - blogging
---
Take some time to think of ideas and develop content for the blog. I
tend to jot down lots of different ideas for possible brilliant,
informative articles for the blog. However, most get discarded as when I
subsequently re-read them, I discover that they don't even make sense or
interest me. Some ideas are developed and refined over a longer period
while other blog entries are more spontaneous.

As you are composing the article, review the text carefully as you go.
If the blog editor has a 'Preview' option, use it to review the text
again before finally hitting 'Publish'. When the article is published,
review it yet again. I almost always still manage to find a nonsensical
or rambling sentence on this final pass. I also subscribe to my own feed
and read the article in Thunderbird where there is still scope to find
the odd typo which is irritating as it means modifying and re-publishing
the entry.

Although you are not writing an essay for an English exam, people are
more likely to enjoy the content if the article is well structured and
readable, spelled correctly and free of careless typos. I prefer to use
English and avoid the use of slang or text message speak.

Keep the article short. Maybe I am unusual but I have a very short
attention span. If a blog entry is five pages long then I am unlikely to
persevere right through to the end unless it really is compulsive
reading. Similarly, I tend to break articles into short paragraphs to be
easier on the eye.

If the article is long or contains detailed technical content (code
examples), consider breaking it into separate, shorter articles (Part 1
of 4) or maybe present the material in a different format (like a
conventional Web page or write a book).
