---
title: How to publicise your blog
layout: post
comments: true
date: 2005-11-06 19:01:44
categories: blogging
---
Don't. Build it and they will come (probably). Try and focus on the
style and content of the blog. Try to keep updating the blog on a
regular basis. Make it easy for people to subscribe to the blog by
creating an RSS feed - [Feedburner](http://www.feedburner.com/) is a
popular, free choice. If you have succeeded in getting people to visit
the blog and, better, maybe even subscribe to it, try to keep new
material coming otherwise the blog will surely wither and die together
with the interest of the your audience.

It is worth setting up pings so the main blog search engines index
your blog. I manually ping [Technorati](http://technorati.com/ping/)
after posting a new article (and check my posting gets indexed in due
course) and just let Feedburner automatically ping a few more blog
services.

I have also started to include Technorati
[tags](http://technorati.com/help/tags.html) at the end of the
article.  Initially I was a little reluctant to include tags that are
specific to Technorati as it may be superceded in the future by
another technology (remember how Altavista got obliterated by Google)
but the use of Technorati tags does appears to be standard practice in
the blogging community and does help in driving traffic to the site.

Try not to succumb to the temptation to go around adding meaningless
comments (e.g. 'Great blog!') to other blogs in a subtle effort to get
people to come and visit your blog. Even though, you succeeded in
passing the onerous word verification test, this is not much better
than spam and some might consider it rude. Instead, try to provide
some useful contribution to the topic in question.

Do not put Google Adsense ads on your blog. Ads put me off almost
immediately and waste valuable space on the screen. The dot com boom
and been and gone. I would love it if you prove me wrong but no-one is
going to get rich from a personal blog.

Don't become obsessed by the statistics for your blog. However, this
is easier said than done and I find myself spending time, pouring over
the Web logs and statistics reports for my blog. Maybe the analysis of
the Web statistics (spiders, robots, RSS readers and the occasional
human being) what was popular, the growth of the blog over time,
spikes, the relative popularity of different referrers etc would be
the basis for a interesting article.
