---
date: 2005-12-14 22:29:43
title: British Airways - making travel easier
layout: post
comments: true
categories: travel
---
Once upon a time, I flew back from Lausanne in Switzerland to London.
Although the skies were clear, there had been heavy thunderstoms earlier
in the day so the plane was forced to hold above Heathrow. We flew
around and around in circles for so long that we eventually had to
divert to Bournemouth to refuel.

This impromptu diversion confused the trio of Swiss people sitting
behind me who thought London was 'quite small' and 'very green' and why
'is no-one getting off' after we had landed and sat around for 15
minutes on the runway at this small, provincial airport.

This confusion was because British Airways were too incompetent to put a
French speaker on the crew on a flight from Switzerland. In fact, when
he realised he wasn't actually in London, one of the Swiss passengers
then politely asked a stewardess why no announcements had been made in
French.

Events then descended into farce when the stewardess then made an
announcement for 'any French speaking passengers to make themselves
known to the cabin staff'. The same Swiss passenger duly volunteered and
he then made an announcement over the loudspeaker system directed
primarily at his two fellow Swiss passengers who were sitting right
there, next to him.

So, after a complimentary drink to placate the Brits and prevent
rioting, we finally arrived 2 hours 30 mins late at London Heathrow. The
final straw was that it took British Airways a further 45 minutes to get
a set of steps and buses over to the remote stand at Terminal 4 so we
could actually leave the plane.

As I finally left the plane at 21.45 on a Friday night, I was tired, fed
up and just desperate to get home. The pilot was stood at the exit door,
smiling and saying 'Good night' to all passengers.

I paused and told him that, while I understood that the diversion due to
the weather was unavaoidable, it was an absolute joke that the British
Airways could not arrange for ground staff to meet a plane that was over
2 hours late. The only consequence for me was that my tea was cold.
However, plenty of other passengers on that flight were desperately
trying to make connections to America and Asia. If the steps had been in
place, they might just have had a slim chance of making their onward
connection. With this additional delay, there was absolutely no chance.

The pilot just smiled again (which was quite irritating in itself) and
replied 'Yes I know Sir. It is embarassing and bloody unacceptable and I
can assure you that I have made my views known in no uncertain terms.'
