---
title: CRM
layout: post
comments: true
date: '2005-09-29 22:08:15'
categories:
    - amazon
    - crm
---
A lot of people make a lot of money out of customer relationship
management (CRM) but here is a real-life example of how customer
service affects the relationship with the customer.

A few weeks ago I ordered a wireless USB card and a CD (Antics by
Interpol) from Amazon. I received the normal 'Your order has been
dispatched' email within 24 hours. I waited for 10 days but nothing
turned up which was unusual because normally Amazon deliver pretty
promptly (even with the SuperSaver option).

I know the package hasn't been left on my doorstep in the pouring rain
by the postman and subsequently stolen as I specified the delivery
address as my place of work, specifically, to avoid this.

So I send Amazon a polite email informing them of the problem and
asking what can be done.

Amazon replied promptly, helpfully confirming when the package was
dispatched and that, unfortunately, there was no way of tracking the
item.

* Please note that we take full responsibility should any item become
lost or damaged while being delivered, and we are more than happy to
replace these items at a cost to ourselves. If your package does not
arrive by September 23, 2005, please contact us to confirm that it has
not been received and that your delivery address is correct for your
order, so we can investigate and take the appropriate action. *

Now what was interesting about this reply was:

-   Amazon actually read my email and answered my specific questions. It
    was not a standard form letter.
-   If, after waiting two weeks and checking the delivery address was
    correct, the package still did not turn up, Amazon were prepared to
    send me the goods free of charge for a second time.

Anyway, this story had a happy ending as the package was actually
sitting in the post room at work and they had simply forgotten to
inform me.

Now, after I made the initial order I discovered I could have got the
identical wireless USB card off the shelf for the same price, without
any delay in Tesco and I could have saved a whole three pounds (33%)
on the CD (at CD-WOW!).

However this excellent customer service gives me a increased level of
confidence of buying goods from Amazon. Could I be guaranteed the same
response if another, more expensive package from another retailer went
missing ?
