---
title: social bookmarking with Furl
layout: post
comments: true
date: '2005-10-08 17:09:00'
categories:
    - software
---
I used to use Yahoo Bookmarks which maintains a list of Web sites that
I could access from any computer. This was a nice idea but I found I
didn't use (or maintain) the bookmarks regularly and the links
gradually fell into a state of disrepair. For my most frequently
accessed Web sites, I would simply type the start of the address into
the browser and simply let auto-complete do its work which was
quicker.

A couple of weeks ago, Yahoo launched
[My Web](http://uk.search.yahoo.com/myresults/benefits) which
overhauled the bookmarks functionality and added the ability to save a
copy of the Web page so that the referenced content was preserved in
the event that the Web site was subsequently moved or
deleted. However, My Web still uses a hierarchical system of folders
to store the bookmarks. For example, the Manchester United home page
would typically be stored in a folder named 'Sport-Football-Manchester
United'.

Then I discovered social bookmarking (Furl, del.ico.us, spurl) which
also saves the state of the Web page and maintains a personal,
searchable archive (just like My Web). However, the key difference
with [Furl](http://www.furl.net/) (et al) is that all Web pages for all
users are stored on a central server. For any Web page, Furl can then
quickly display similar, related, associated pages which have also
been stored by different Furl users. This is what those Web 2.0 people
call 'social bookmarking'.

Another difference is that Furl'ed pages does not use a hierarchical
structure. Instead, stored pages are simply associated with various
tags. So, in the earlier example, the Manchester United home page
might be tagged as 'Sport', 'Football' and 'Manchester'. Note that,
unlike My Web, the bookmarked Furl page can be associated with
multiple categories. Tagging is the key to effective searching with
Furl.

This feature is really useful. For example, I am currently interested
in using Microsoft
[OneNote](http://www.microsoft.com/uk/office/onenote/prodinfo/default.mspx)
as a single repository to store information, emails, jottings, to do
lists, articles, and even Outlook notes. OneNote has a couple of
disadvantages; it uses a proprietary format and is a commercial
product.  So I searched SourceForge and Freshmeat for an OpenSource
alternative without much success. Then I discovered
[KeyNote](http://www.tranglos.com/free/keynote.html) which looked
promising but wasn't much different from using outline mode in Emacs.

Then I stumbled across [EverNote](http://www.evernote.com/en/) and,
using Furl, immediately got directed towards some more interesting Web
based organiser applications like
[BackPack](http://www.backpackit.com/),
[JotSpot](http://query.jot.com/) and possibly even
[TiddlyWiki](http://tiddlywiki.com/) all of which immediately get
furled.

Another subtle way that Furl affected my usage was that previously I
might stumble across a Web site of interest but could not be bothered
to file it as (subconsciously) I didn't want to clutter up my nicely
organized bookmarks. With Furl, I tended to add the Web site
regardless and simply tag the page as 'Of interest'.

Another possible use for Furl is to capture ideas for blogs. When you
see a Web site of interest, simply tag it as 'Ideas for Blog' together
with a short comment.
