---
title: another RSS reader for consideration
date: 2005-12-16 23:29:09
layout: post
comments: true
categories:
    - software
    - rss
---
I am using the Newsgator Online RSS reader and simply want to order my
most important, must-read blogs (i.e mine) at the top. It doesn't seem
like an unreasonable requirement. From a cursory glance at the
documentation, it is not immediately clear if I can even do this in
Newsgator. This is a little irritating as I now have to do some work to
scroll down to 'Oracle' or rename the folder as 'AAAOracle'. And, yes,
you're right, I am very lazy.

Then I stumbled across a blog article on
[SearchFox](http://www.searchfox.com/) which is another Web based RSS
reader (like Newsgator) but with an interesting personalisation and
recommendation engine which automatically bubbles your favourite, most
frequently read articles and blogs to the top of your reading list.

This sounds interesting. It is a pity that SearchFox is another Web 2.0
application that is in beta and currently open to a selected few who
must apply for an account. Still, I sent them a polite email citing my
recent review and asked for access to evaluate their product. I even
used a Gmail address to prove my Web 2.0 credentials. I sent the email
yesterday and am now polling my Google Inbox every ten seconds.

I stumbled across SearchFox on a arbitrary blog search on
[feedster](http://www.feedster.com/) about RSS and it struck me that, in
the past, I would use Google (Web, Groups), TuCows, SourceForge,
Freshmeat to find OpenSource, free RSS readers.

However most of these sources are relatively out of date and had failed
to unearth SearchFox when I was recently looking for RSS readers. The
fast moving blogosphere is much better suited to finding these sort of
hip, new Web 2.0 applications.
