---
date: 2005-11-01 00:45:33
categories:
    - software
title: comparison of Blinklist, del.icio.us and Furl
layout: post
comments: true
---
After briefly evaluating [Furl](http://furl.net/),
[del.icio.us](http://del.icio.us/) and
[Blinklist](http://www.blinklist.com/), I finally decided to ditch Furl
and spurn the advances of del.ico.us in favour of Blinklist as my
preferred one stop shop for all my social bookmarking needs.

Furl was my first experience of 'social bookmarking' but, as I became
more comfortable with the idea of tagging Web pages, I found the Furl
interface is simply horrible. There are simply too many key clicks
required to add a single tag let alone two ! And if you want to add a
brand new category, it takes so long that you have almost lost the will
to tag the page and forgotten why it was of interest in the first place.
It looks like the tagging functionality was added on as an afterthought.

I then experimented with del.ico.us as loads of people seem to rave
about it and it appeared to be the longest established technology. After
all, 50 million Web 2.0 officiandos and satisifed del.ico.us users can't
be wrong, can they ?

However, just imagine that you are a first time user and you encounter
the del.ico.us home page for the first time. The initial impression of
the home page is absolutely terrible. What is it ? What does it do ? How
do you use it ? How do you get help ? Where is the FAQ ? Or the tutorial
? Also, there is the confounded sub-domain - del.ico.us - and the oh so
clever pun which I took three weeks to grasp.

After my previous post on social bookmarking, a nice gentleman from
Blinklist spammed - sorry commented - on my blog to tell me about the
existence of Blinklist so I felt obliged to evaluate Blinklist as well.

Blinklist's interface looks modern and clean, well designed and thought
out as though they employ proper Web designers who actually use the
system themselves ('eat your own dog food'). Contrast that with the
initial page presented by del.ico.us which looks like an undergraduate
knocked it up during a lunch hour and a manager said 'Looks good - let's
run with it!'

It is true that I had some teething problems with Blinklist; for example
when the tag editor kept insisting on SHOUTING AT ME and the odd tag got
duplicated. However, I used the feedback form and tried to provide some
constructive feedback to the Blinklist development team. Almost
immediately, I found myself in direct email contact with a lead
developer (well he could be the CEO for all I know) who passed on my
suggestions and got them addressed very quickly. Sometimes they appeared
to be making releases as quickly as I was providing feedback.

One of the best features of Blinklist is the tagging of pages is really
quick and intuitive. Suitable tags are suggested automatically (which
are usually adequate) and it is trivial to add as many new tags as you
want - quickly. Blinklist also has a facility to import del.ico.us
archives which worked fine for me when importing my massive archive of
15 pages. Your mileage may vary if you have 5,000 del.ico.us pages.

Although Blinklist doesn't keep a Web archive of the saved pages (like
Furl) this doesn't really bother me as I can use the Internet archive if
it really comes to it.

Of course, Blinklist has some disadvantages. I presume that Blinklist
are a small startup and they are the new kid on the block in what is
already a crowded marketplace. Worse, it is obvious that those clever
people at Google labs will inevitably be entering this space (RSS
Reader, My Search History) in the not too distant future.

Secondly, Blinklist has a relatively small user base (compared with
Furl, del.ico.is, [spurl](http://spurl.net/) et al) although this is
compensated by the more intelligent, discerning type of people using the
service and subsequent higher quality of the Blinklist content.
