---
date: '2006-09-28 05:09:43'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: the fickle hand of fate
layout: post
comments: true
---
There I was - teetering on the precipice of getting my own domain name,
a hosted blog, Website, anonymous FTP server, message board, Wiki and
countless other stuff I would never use.

A fully hosted solution (with unlimited bandwidth) on a Linux platform,
the bleeding edge versions of mySQL, Apache, PHP and WordPress, a
'control panel', SSH and the prospect of sharing my wonderful set of
feeds to my adoring public using
[Gregarius](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/09/21/drowning-in-a-river-of-news/).

The domain I had set my heart on was 'www.mrbrightside.com'. When I went
to buy it, I discovered to my disgust that someone (a female in
Doncaster) currently had
[control](http://www.whois.net/whois_new.cgi?d=mrbrightside.com) of this
domain.

I didn't even know idiots speculated on domain names so this was a
terrible shock but this
[article](http://www.mikeindustries.com/blog/archive/2005/03/how-to-snatch-an-expiring-domain)
was most useful. Then fate smiled upon me to overcome this minor
setback.

When I consulted the '[whois](http://www.whois.net/)' entry, I found
that the domain had recently expired. On 16 September 2006 to be
precise. How very exciting ! This surely means I am destined to succeed
after all.

All I need to do now is to wait patiently until the domain is released
back to the Interweb so I can register it. The only outstanding question
is whether I sign up for 1, 2 or even 10 years.

I was excited. I was confident. I started to research various hosting
providers in the US and the UK. People I trusted used
[DreamHost](http://www.dreamhost.com/) and were blissfully happy with
the service.

I was poised with my credit card, polling the domain name every 30
seconds. I had to take compassionate leave from work citing 'illness of
someone very close to me' in this dogged pursuit of 'mrbrightside.com'.

In my spare 29 seconds, I busied myself researching the themes, plugins
and applications I would be using in this brave new world.

Then, suddenly the status of 'www.mrbrightside.com' changed to 'Locked'.
Apparently this means that the owner has not responded to multiple
emails, phone calls and final demands to renew his interest and the
release of the domain name is now imminent.

Fantastic. Only Brandon Flowers can stop me now.

Then, as always, fate intervened again but this time she wasn't smiling.

The wizzened old hag from Doncaster returned from market in Malton and
finally decided to renew the domain even though it cost her more money
than if she had acted two days earlier. Maybe Yorkshire folk aren't so
mean, after all.

Then the blogosphere erupted,
[moaning](http://www.web-strategist.com/blog/2006/09/27/dreamhost-kindly-respond-to-andy/)
about the [appalling](http://nightmarehost.blogspot.com/) level of
service provided by Dreamhost - downtime, poor support, bad
communication, slow connectivity, veiled threats, termination without
due cause.

Phew. What a relief. That was a narrow escape. Fate was really saving me
from a disaster.

So, on reflection, I decided to take the easy option - put my wallet
away and do absolutely nothing.
