---
date: '2006-07-17 15:44:27'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: football nostalgia
layout: post
comments: true
---
Doug's
[post](http://oracledoug.com/serendipity/index.php?/archives/779-Rotterdam.html)
about early memories of attending football matches got me thinking.

Years ago, I was a LMTB (League Match Ticket Book) holder at Manchester
United and went to every home game at Old Trafford. An LMTB was similar
to a season ticket but only entitled the holder to attend League Matches
with no priority for FA Cup tickets.

Consequently, whenever United got to the latter stages of the FA Cup,
there was a black market in the Manchester Evening News for the little
numbered tokens that were printed in the matchday program. You needed a
large number of tokens (including reserve games) to get a ticket.

However, my father was a bank manager and then, as now, the majority of
tickets for big football matches went to corporate hospitality rather
then the true fans.

So, on Saturday April 3 1976, on a beautiful sunny day, my Dad and I
crossed the Pennines to see United play Derby in the FA Cup Semi Final
at Hillsborough.

The tickets had 'Exeter FC' imprinted on the back and we were in the
wrong end (Spion Kop) and all the United fans were at Leppings Lane but
none of that mattered. I was so excited and nervous, I could barely
converse properly.

We got into the ground early to watch the ground slowly fill up, soak up
the atmosphere and enjoy the fans taunting each other. Inevitably, there
were pockets of United fans scattered on the massive, steep terrace at
Hillsborough.

United had a young team, managed by Tommy Docherty and were riding high
in their first year back in Division 1 after promotion and Derby were
the reigning champions.

Gerry Daly gave United the lead in the first half but my main abiding
memory of this game was late in the second half when United were awarded
a free-kick at our end. Gordon Hill stepped up and produced a swerving,
curling free-kick past the despairing hands of the Derby keeper into the
corner. 2-0 to United ! The ground exploded, the noise was unbelievable
and the whole stadium was a moving sea of red and white.

When the game ended, United fans invaded the pitch to celebrate.
Inevitably, a significant minority came to the Kop end to taunt the
Derby fans. Some Derby fans responded and joined them on the pitch and
the press carried pictures of the resulting 'ugly scenes'. I can vividly
remember trying to leave the ground and taking refuge in a concrete
backwater as United fans started to get onto the Kop terrace and most
peace loving supporters desperately tried to get away from the chaos.

All in all, a fantastic day out.
