---
date: '2006-06-19 23:16:20'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: born of frustration
layout: post
comments: true
---
When you are trying to print something in a hurry, there is nothing
worse than discovering that your work of art has just been queued behind
a monster 764 page document.

As you are stood by the printer wondering whether to hang around, return
to your desk or to submit the job to that printer on the fifth floor,
the printer LED displays 'Attention: Out of Paper'. Naturally, there is
no paper in the print room so you go to the stationery cupboard for more
ammunition and load Trays 1, 2 and 5.

Excitement slowly builds as printing resumes and the job slowly advances
to page 369. Your heart sinks as the confounded LED lights up again.
Panic and manic depression set in as you see the words 'Attention: Paper
Jam - Area 6C'. You press a few buttons and follow the online
diagnostics which gently lead you step by step (with pictures) to the
precise location.

You have to open various doors, lift various flaps and push various
plastic, purple coloured levers to perform open heart surgery on the
innards of the LaserJet. Unfortunately, you misinterpret Figure 3B and
scald your hand on that metal bar that gets as hot as a blast furnace.

Finally, you manage to identify the cause of the paper jam in Area 6C
and extract the offending sheet carefully. You gleefully fold it up and
consign it to the blue recycling bin and hope page 412 wasn't that
important. You are ecstatic.

The 764 page document finally completes followed by a slight delay while
the printer pauses for breath. Finally your single page is ejected.
Rather inconveniently, the printer decides to switch to A3 paper just in
case the intended reader is short sighted but still.

You are about to triumphantly depart and soak your hand in freezing
water. The owner of 'War & Peace' rather conveniently arrives at the
printer to collect his tome and says 'Oh is that my document ? I hope it
didn't hold you up. Thanks a lot.'
