---
date: '2006-02-06 17:29:20'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: new homework excuse
layout: post
comments: true
---
Sorry about my homework, Sir. I was busy writing my essay in Microsoft
Word and had a separate Word document open with my initial notes and
jottings. I slaved away over a hot keyboard for at least two hours with
my Dad making unhelpful suggestions which were really annoying and just
held me up. When I finally finished, I ignored my dad's annoying
suggestion to get a printout but did take great care to save my work
(twice).

Unfortunately, both Word documents were called the same name
('PrizeWinningEssay.DOC') and somehow I ended up overwriting my
beautiful, finished essay with my partial, incomplete notes and
jottings.

After he had calmed down and stopped screaming, my dad then downloaded a
trial version of [Doc Regenerator](http://www.dposoft.net/). He was
mightily impressed by this software that can reconstruct partial,
corrupted (and not just conventional, deleted) Word documents by
scouring the PC's hard disk. He managed to unearth lots of interesting
ancient Word documents of hysterical interest (including various copies
of his CV) using this wonderful utility.

Apparently, Doc Regenerator took 75 minutes to scan and analyse a 70 GB
disk to produce a total of 6,234 file fragments. It then needed a second
pass of 90 minutes to assemble these fragments back into 425 complete
Word documents. Of these, 16 recovered Word documents could not be
previewed due to embedded graphics or other issues

Unfortunately, not one of the available 409 documents that my Dad
examined individually was my original piece of homework. My dad was too
mean to shell out 30 GBP for the full version of Doc Regenerator to see
the remaining, tantalising 16 documents. Instead he chose to waste
another two hours helping me type in my wonderful work of art again.
