---
date: 2006-01-26 19:14:35
categories: blogging
title: resisting the lure of Joomla
layout: post
comments: true
---
Joomla, Chumbawamba, Oompa Loompa

I really like the presentation of Howard Rogers'
[site](http://www.dizwell.com/) (and the integration of Forums, Blog and
now an Oracle Wiki) and have followed, with interest, the evolution of
the site in different formats, and enjoyed Howard's thoughts on various
content management technologies over recent months before he finally
settled on [Joomla](http://www.joomla.org/).

I am also very impressed by the new look of Niall Litchfield's
[orawin.info](http://orawin.info/services/) site which also uses Joomla
and is a marked contrast (and improvement) from its
[predecessor](http://www.niall.litchfield.dial.pipex.com/). In fact, I
just find myself gazing at the desert landscape for minutes on end.

I now find myself struggling to resist a very strong temptation to
install Apache, PHP, mySQL and then Joomla on my PC at home just because
it would be an interesting exercise.

This activity would also satisfy all the necessary pre-requisites for
installing and playing with [WordPress.org](http://wordpress.org/) which
is also very tempting.

However, I must be strong and resist. I know what will happen. I will
encounter a few problems, solve them by reading the documentation, FAQ,
finally get it all working and enjoy a brief period of satisfaction.

Then, knowing that I was able to do it and it worked, I will almost
immediately lose interest and fail to really experiment with Joomla and
WordPress at all.

I know this because last year, I thought it would be a brilliant idea to
get all my vinyl records out of the loft, transfer them to digital
format and then dispose of them.

I bought a cable from Tandy to hook up my record player to the PC. I
connected it incorrectly and nearly blew my tiny, tinny PC speakers. I
then investigated what software packages I would need to convert the
large WAV files to MP3 format and label each individual track in ID3
format.

I settled on [Audacity](http://audacity.sourceforge.net/) which did the
job perfectly well and was another high quality, free, OpenSource
software package.

Then I converted just one side of one LP - The Wonderful and Frightening
World by The Fall. In fact, I didn't even do one side. I just did one
song (Lay of the Land) which took a few iterations but finally, I had an
MP3 version of the song.

Then, as soon as I knew it could be done, despite investing all this
time, I almost instantly lost complete interest in the whole exercise.

I never even converted another song, let alone attacked the pile of
singles and LP's. I am slightly worried that this indicates a
personality trait that is a cause for concern (i.e. I am a perpetual
starter but not a finisher).

The downloads are underway...
