---
date: '2006-01-10 01:30:06'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: starting out with GTD
layout: post
comments: true
---
> A long journey starts with a single step...

I was curious about applying the concepts and ideas behind GTD to try to
manage my time (both at home and at work) more efficiently so I read up
a little about GTD over the weekend and actually ordered a copy of Dave
Allen's
[book](http://www.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos/ASIN/0749922648/qid=1136828908/sr=8-1/ref=sr_8_xs_ap_i1_xgl/202-0516357-3727021)
(having read snippets in a bookshop who were nice enough to give me a
nice leather armchair for my comfort).

I found a lot of good information and interesting ideas at [43
Folders](http://www.43folders.com/) and
[Lifehacker](http://www.lifehacker.com/).

I then heeded the very advice I was slightly disparaging about in a
previous
[article](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/01/05/not-getting-things-done/)
and moved absolutely everything (over 6,000 messages) from my fat,
bloated Inbox into a new DMZ folder.

I even spent some time trawling through the dusty, old, antique
messages. As I suspected, the vast majority were well past their sell-by
date and could be safely deleted immediately. Then I started to detect
patterns; if I didn't recognise the author/subject, then it was pretty
likely that the complete thread was no longer relevant and could be
deleted. Similarly, some authors simply have nothing of interest to say
ever; mostly automatons but sometimes human. The DMZ folder was trimmed
to less than 400 messages and the whole exercise must have taken less
than two hours (and not four days).

Some authors send me valuable technical content (mixed with some dross)
so their messages had to be selectively pruned or all messages left
intact and a action created to conduct a second pass.

So, today, Monday 9 January 2006, saw the dawn of my new email handling
strategy.

If the message contains technical content of interest, it gets
immediately filed as 'Reference'. Some messages contain interesting
technical content that merits further investigation. This is normally
some bold assertions that are unproven or not understood by me (not
hard). These lead to an action 'To do sometime'.

If I replied to an email asking for more information, I would delete the
incoming message and create a corresponding task in 'Waiting'. The
original email thread is accessible from the 'Sent' folder.

I treated any email with an attachment quite specifically. If the
attachment was relevant, I separated the attachment which was then filed
on the file system. In most cases, the email could be deleted as the
information was contained in the accompanying document.

If an email purely provides contact details (name, address, email,
phone) etc, I immediately add the contact to my address book. Sometimes,
if I am travelling in the near future, I will also print a hard copy so
I know where I am going, who I am seeing and where I am sleeping as this
always helps.

A couple of messages to lesser used email aliases just needed an new
filter rule defining so that this content is automatically routed to a
dedicated folder and only spends a few fleeting seconds in the 'Inbox'
and my consciousness.

Similarly, I chose to unsubscribe from marketing messages from companies
or if I really do want the information automatically filter those
messages to a dedicated folder.

The net result is that I now get far fewer messages in my Inbox so it is
easier and quicker to process them and the messages that do arrive in my
Inbox are far more relevant to me.

So now I look at each email message on arrival. Well that's not quite
true. I have started to turn email off if I am working on something that
needs concentration to avoid the continual interruption and context
switching as I am easily distracted.

Close of play. Inbox - 3. All messages that need to be acted on
tomorrow.
