---
date: '2006-07-11 04:44:09'
categories:
    - IT
title: Lost - life mirrors fiction
layout: post
comments: true
---
When I visit customers, I am usually granted read-access to production
servers. Mostly I am working closely with IT staff to explain what I am
doing and why. I am not normally granted the passwords to administer the
production system which is just the way I like it.

Otherwise, Siebel server CRMPROD1 which has been working fine for 2
years, unexpectedly core dumps, the call center is down, the business is
losing 2 million dollars every minute and everyone is staring
inquiringly in your direction.

Occasionally, the screensaver kicks in after a predefined interval. So
the person has to unlock the screen. However, if the person is in a
meeting or otherwise unavailable, the screen remains locked until he
returns. This can waste valuable time so I prefer to keep the screen
accessible at all times, if at all possible.

Consequently, I find myself acting like John
[Locke](http://www.channel4.com/entertainment/tv/microsites/L/lost/locke.html)
in '[Lost](http://www.channel4.com/entertainment/tv/microsites/L/lost/)'
who has to strike a key on the keyboard of a computer every 2 hours to
avoid dire (yet unknown) consequences.

So, don't be surprised if you are working with an Oracle consultant who
nervously keeps looking at his watch during a fascinating conversation
about Siebel architecture. If he then rudely and abruptly terminates the
dialog by hurtling back to his temporary desk and launches into a
desperate, full length, athletic dive across the room to desperately hit
a random key, that's why.
