---
date: '2006-12-28 17:14:43'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: Xmas surprise
layout: post
comments: true
---
Cousin John called with best wishes for the New Year and just wanted to
mention the Billy Connolly double CD. He was absolutely delighted with
this thoughtful gift and was looking forward immensely to listening to
it in the car.

I graciously accepted his thanks and reciprocated by thanking him for my
M&S Men's Grooming Set complete with black leather carry case. I assured
him that when we next meet, my nasal hair will be trimmed, my bushy
eyebrows will no longer meet in the middle and my ears will be
fluff-free.

Then he went and spoiled it by claiming 'Just one small problem, Norman.
There were no actual CD's inside the case.' He kindly offered to send
the empty case back so once again, I am condemned to make the trek into
town, fighting with all the bargain hunters, to stand in a refund queue
that spans 0.8 miles and requires external (armed) security guards to
police.

As an interim measure, I asked him whether he could just enjoy the liner
notes and look at the photographs until I manage to resolve the problem.

Norma was horrified. She immediately asked me to call Uncle Robert
(lucky recipient of Tony Hancock's Half Hour audio CD). Unfortunately,
Uncle Robert also ripped off the wrapping and expectantly opened the CD
only to find an empty jewel case with a mysterious note attached: 'More
in cupboard.'. He duly went to the cupboard but didn't find any CD's.

I told him this CD captured Hancock's greatest and most surreal work;
the ultimate in silent comedy rather than a sick joke by us.
