---
title: murky depths of the recycle pool
layout: post
comments: true
date: 2006-12-01 17:48:08
categories:
    - blogging
    - humour
---
London, near England. 1 December 2006

Brightside Productions proudly announce the launch 'From The Murky
Depths Of The Recycle Pool.'

This innovative blog series will round up the latest happenings from
the blogosphere with a sideways glance at Oracle. The blog will
feature a variety of exciting formats including articles, podcasts,
video blogs and live satellite links. Assuming I get that microphone,
Webcam and satellite dish for Christmas that is.

'Recycle Pool' will be authored by a succession of guest contributors
including CEO's of leading technology companies, penniless Web 2.0
developers, 'B' listers, long standing subscribers to 'Blog In
Isolation', dead pop stars, retired footballers and famous libel
lawyers.

'Recycle Pool' will only be available as a beta to a limited number of
subscribers for a small fee of &pound;25 per month. The blog will be
available in all popular RSS formats and an easy to digest email
digest. For a small additional charge, the guest author will come
round to your house and read the content to you. Travel costs and all
expenses are billable.

Top London marketing agency, Scratchy and Scratchy, were paid 3
million pounds to come up with a marketing campaign, corporate
branding, logo and tagline. All their efforts were discarded in favour
of: 

> 'Drudged from the bottom, read into memory, processed and 
> immediately discarded.'

Stay tuned for the upcoming first article which will be written by the
most avid reader of 'Blog In Isolation.' For over a year, this
subscriber has stayed with the blog through thick and thin, for richer
for poorer, in sickness and in health. He has devoured every single
article. He religiously visits the site every single day without fail.
He reads comments, categories, archives, trackbacks.

Sometimes, he obsessively re-reads the same article again and again.
However, this gentleman is a little shy and, to date, has never
summoned up the courage to comment. So, it is with great pleasure
that, after weeks of high powered negotiations in a Travel Lodge Hotel
outside Oxford and a clandestine meeting at a motorway service
station, I am pleased to announce the identity of the first guest: >
Mr. Google Bot
