---
date: '2006-05-25 17:32:19'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: good vibes from Netvibes
layout: post
comments: true
---
I currently use [MyYahoo!](http://my.yahoo.com/) as my home page. I have
looked at MyYahoo's next
[incarnation](http://www.yahoo.com/?p=1148568392), played with Google's
[personalised](http://www.google.co.uk/ig?hl=en) home page and Windows
[Live!](http://www.live.com/) but none are as flexible as I would like.

So, prompted by the only other Oracle gentleman with enough taste to
choose WordPress,
[Rahul](http://rahulagarwal.wordpress.com/2006/03/27/netvibes/), I
decided to experiment a little with
[Netvibes](http://www.netvibes.com/).

Out of the box, the default Netvibes
[screen](http://www.flickr.com/photos/70276096@N00/152958731/) doesn't
look too remarkable. A widget for Gmail, a search box, example RSS feeds
and the obligatory Flickr feed to display other peoples lovely cats on
your home page.

However, the real power of Netvibes lies in the power and flexibility to
configure the page(s) to be exactly what you want, where you want and
how you want.

Thankfully, the
[signup](http://www.flickr.com/photos/70276096@N00/152958732/in/photostream/)
page is blissfully simple so you get an account immediately and
painlessly.

One of the main things I am interested in is a personalised portal with
access to all my RSS feeds. Simply click on 'Add Content' and you can
either add individual feeds by URL or, in my case,
[import](http://www.flickr.com/photos/70276096@N00/152958733/in/photostream/)
my OPML from Newsgator Online.

Wait a few seconds and all my RSS feeds are successfully
[imported](http://www.flickr.com/photos/70276096@N00/152958734/in/photostream/)
and, even better, my hierarchy is preserved. Impressive.

You can simply select an individual RSS feeds from the available list.
This presents a brief
[summary](http://www.flickr.com/photos/70276096@N00/152958736/in/photostream/)
and the option to add the feed to the current page.

Clicking on an article of interest opens up the detailed RSS reader.
This is a fairly standard two pane
[view](http://www.flickr.com/photos/70276096@N00/152958737/in/photostream/)
and you can click through to the Web site.

Netvibes offers multiple tabbed pages. I created several pages including
one for all the Oracle blogs I read. I then simply used 'Add to current
page' for each Oracle blog to create my personalised Oracle blogs
[page](http://www.flickr.com/photos/70276096@N00/152959945/in/photostream/).

This is pretty good but when you are actually reading the Oracle blogs,
the blog hierarchy on the left of the screen is unused and a needless
distraction. No problem - just close it which leaves you with this
newspaper style
[screen](http://flickr.com/photos/70276096@N00/152976288/).

Now to see whether there are any articles of interest. Simply click
'Expand all' to
[reveal](http://flickr.com/photos/70276096@N00/152959947/) what everyone
is talking about.

One of my pet hates about most RSS readers I have
[used](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2005/12/13/comparison-of-rss-readers/)
is that it wasn't easy to select which blog appears first in the list.
With Netvibes, it is trivial. If you decide Doug Burns is more
interesting than that clown, Andy C, simply
[drag'n'drop](http://flickr.com/photos/70276096@N00/152959949/in/photostream/)
to put Doug first in the list. No need to rename your favourite authors
as 001Doug, 002Tom, 999Andy. This is the year 2006 and Web 2.0 after
all.

Each tabbed page can be assigned a pretty
[icon](http://flickr.com/photos/70276096@N00/152959950/in/photostream/)
and Netvibes comes with a handy set of (growing)
[widgets](http://flickr.com/photos/70276096@N00/152959951/in/photostream/)
(Gmail, Yahoo Mail, del.ici.ous, Box.net, Ical, ToDo, Weather) in
addition to featured RSS feeds.

Overall, an excellent piece of well designed, fast software. Netvibes
doesn't have a help page. You simply don't need one due to the intuitive
interface.

I started out hoping to find a personalised home page and I discovered a
very powerful, customisable RSS reader hidden under covers.
