---
date: '2006-05-24 04:51:03'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: New York nostalgia
layout: post
comments: true
---
Back in 1995, I was a software engineer for Ingres, working on the OS/2
port. A merchant bank had a serious, intermittent, non-reproducible
problem and Computer Associates kindly bought me a ticket to New York to
go and help them.

The ticket was an open return. I thought 'That's nice. That's so I can
extend my stay for a lovely weekend city break with my wife'. The truth
was that it was an open return as I was staying onsite until the problem
was resolved [ PH was right. I am naive ]

I duly took a black briefcase with a magnetic tape with the complete
source code, an umbrella and a bowler hat. The tape was slightly too big
for the briefcase and it was a struggle to shut it. Halfway through the
flight, I decided to read some of the background to the long standing
issue. The briefcase wouldn't open. It was jammed. I was petrified that
US Customs were going to ask me to open it. Thankfully, they didn't.

When I arrived at the plush offices of the prestigious merchant bank, I
was greeted like royalty. The client was very impressed that an
'engineer all the way from London' had come to visit them. They offered
me tea, coffee or water and looked perplexed when I said 'Err - have you
got a Swiss Army Knife ?'. A suitable tool was produced and they looked
on in amazement as I butchered the lock and held the mag tape aloft.
Come to think of it, I didn't have a laptop so I must have compiled the
Ingres product on their server.

My other memories of this trip are going to a cinema in Times Square to
watch 'Pulp Fiction' in an effort to stay awake and beat jet lag.
Somehow, this seemed to enhance the cinematic experience further.

Then I called home, trying to find out the United score against Crystal
Palace. People kept telling me 'Oh you haven't heard about Cantona. God
it was absolutely unbelievable. He was sent off, leapt into the crowd
and attacked a Palace fan with a Kung Fu kick'. I didn't believe a word
of it and never got to find out the actual score (1-1) until I returned
home.

And the actual bug - it was a one liner. A race condition introduced by
a misplaced \#ifdef.
