---
date: '2006-11-08 18:09:32'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: hamsters, headhunters, hampers and false religion
layout: post
comments: true
---
I never used to work from home much. When the kids were younger, my wife
was at home and without an office, quiet room or even a shed, I found it
difficult to concentrate. Accessing the work network over dial-up also
was a significant constraint.

Now things are different. My children are both at secondary school and
leave the house before I do. My wife also works and I have a broadband
connection and VPN access to the office network. So, occasionally, I can
save two hours commuting, sit down with a decent cup of tea, be
productive and still be back home in time for tea.

Apart from today, that is. My wife isn't working today but worse than
that, a pet hamster has effected a miraculous escape overnight. I had
noticed that he was looking deeply upset after United's shock defeat at
Southend and chewing frantically at the bars but I never thought he
would do anything like this.

The rodent is now on the loose so all floor fittings have been detached
and every dark nook and cranny has been examined with a high powered
flashlight.

Of course, the hamster hasn't been found. He probably got too
inquisitive and is starving to death somewhere under the floorboards.
That is, if he managed to avoid the mouse poison.

So the search is called off (by me) and suspended by my wife who has
gone to share the terrible news with friends over an overpriced
Cappuccino.

Peace at last. Until my daughter sends me a text 'found him yet ?'.
Plagued by guilt, I get a torch out and scan under the furniture and
fireplace yet again. Then I put his cage on the floor with a tasty
pumpkin seed placed outside to tempt him back to his metal prison.

Peace at last. Back to what I should be working on. Music on. Oh no, I
forgot. No music is allowed as I am supposed to be listening for
hamster-like rustling noises. Funny how the washing machine is exempt
from this noise curfew.

Peace at last. Knock at the front door. Some delivery from Next. Sign.
Thanks.

Peace at last. Another knock at the door. Two female religious nuts who,
thankfully (for their sake) decide not to preach at me for ten minutes
but instead just push a leaflet into my hand titled 'THE END OF FALSE
RELIGION IS NEAR !' with the intriguing bullet points

-   What is false religion ?
-   How will it end ?
-   How will you be affected ?

This is clearly a sign from God. I tell the ladies that my wife is out,
I have the house all to myself and the kettle has just boiled. I invite
them in and ask whether they are qualified to officiate over a funeral
for a hamster. Curiously, they look aghast and leave. Maybe I shouldn't
have flicked my dressing gown so wide open.

Finally, peace at last. Check my email. Curiously, I have a voicemail
from my office extension. This is strange because hardly anyone has
access to this number. I can never remember it without looking at my
business card. My wife doesn't know it and hardly anyone I know has ever
used it.

I play the WAV that is consuming 500KB of disk space. Inevitably, it is
a recruitment consultant who 'has spoken to some people who know me very
well, think very highly of me and just happen to think I might just be
interested in some vacuous pre-sales role dealing with some of the
biggest blue chip companies in, not just the UK, but Europe.' Thanks but
no thanks. Delete the message and return to the document I should be
writing.

Peace at last. Until the telephone rings. Some direct marketeer brings
me tidings of great joy. My wife and I have won a Christmas Hamper. I am
immediately suspicious and ask if this is surplus stock from
[Farepak](http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/wiltshire/6115626.stm).
She assures me that it isn't and tells me that my wife and I just need
to come to a local hotel on Saturday to collect this hamper.

I ask why they can't just send it. Because I have to collect it with my
wife. Can't my wife just pop over and collect it ? No. My wife and I
must both collect it. Why - is the hamper really that heavy ? No. I ask
if there is any type of 'presentation' involved. No there isn't. It is
just a free Christmas hamper. What's in the hamper ? I can't tell you.
Finally, I say I am not interested and hang up.

Wife returns. She asks whether Julia has called to confirm the
appointment about the Christmas Hamper. I tell her the bad news. She
then asks whether I have heard any hamster-like noises and I tell her
more bad news. No hamster-like rustlings but plenty of interruptions.

I finally give up. I put a collared shirt on, and drive to the office.
Peace at last.
