---
title: 'interviewing stories #1'
date: 2006-02-02 16:14:56
categories: IT
layout: post
comments: true
---
[Doug Burns](http://oracledoug.com/serendipity) tells of an unusual
company with an unusual interviewing
[technique](http://oracledoug.com/serendipity/index.php?/archives/872-Now-Thats-What-I-Call-An-Interview!.html)
that reminded me of some interviewing anecdotes.

After one year in IT, I had money in my pocket, no more studies and I
was keen, enthusiastic and motivated. Consequently, I was invited on the
'milk round' to interview prospective graduates in Scotland. Flying in
an aeroplane, staying in a posh hotel, eating food, drinking beer and
not having to pay for any of it motivated me even more.

So I painted a glowing picture of our company to everyone I met. Even
people I wasn't interviewing like the hotel receptionist. I couldn't
wait to tell the nervous undergraduates, in their ill fitting suits,
about the summer barbecque with as much free food and alcohol as you
could consume with transport laid on. Nor could I wait to tell them
about the Christmas dinner dance at a top notch London hotel with
partners invited, a high quality 5 course meal, cabaret, disco, and,
again, as much free alcohol as you wanted.

A year later, I was pleasantly surprised to see a familiar Scottish face
turn up for his induction after his successful application. He was also
pleased, enthusiastic and motivated. Well he was. Until, two weeks
later, I had to break the news that this years summer barbecque was
cancelled due to 'budgetary constraints'. With the aid of counselling,
he managed to get over that bombshell until, three months later, I had
to break the tragic news that the Christmas dinner dance was also
cancelled due to 'adverse market conditions and poor company performance
in Q3/Q4'.
