---
date: '2006-07-21 04:02:48'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: smoke and mirrors
layout: post
comments: true
---

Many years ago, in a parallel universe not far from here, I was involved
in a
[CRM](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/07/14/30-second-guide-to-crm/)
'proof of concept'. This involved producing a demonstration of a
callcenter application accessing customer and product data from
disparate legacy systems in a polished, unified, modern user interface.

The scenario was pretty standard fare. A motor insurance company where a
customer calls in to renew his motor policy and the callcenter agent
walks through a standard 'question-answer-retort' guided dialogue.

The demo climaxes in a superb cross-sell to add the customers son who
has just turned 17 as a named driver to the existing policy (the
pre-sales guy was positively orgasmic about this addition) with a
substantial discount as part of some campaign.

Now, choosing
[names](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/07/20/whats-in-a-name/) is
very important so of course the demo initially used dead pop stars,
politicians, historic figures, alternative comedians and footballers.
This was mainly because the marketing guy thought TEST USER wouldn't
impress the CEO's of blue chip companies.

The initial novelty of using celebrity names soon wore off as we
struggled to make the software components actually do what we wanted. In
fact, we were desperately tired of the endless repetitions of the
dialogue ('Take 369'), that we were completely oblivious to the names
appearing.

We were just hoping and praying just that the demo behaved and ran
through to completion without an hourglass, a blue screen or an
unexpected 'cross-sell' opportunity emerging from the 'Home, Buildings &
Contents' division.

Finally, the proof of concept was finished, we were exhausted and the
demanding marketing man was (finally) happy.

Imagine our surprise, a few weeks later when he returned with two
complimentary CD's. 'Great job guys. The Sales MD was absolutely
delighted and thinks this collateral will really help us make that
breakthrough into SME in Q3. I thought you might be curious to see the
fruits of your labour.'

So we thanked him, waved goodbye, then sat down to watch the CD. We were
both genuinely dumbfounded when the following words, spoken in best BBC
English, came out of the tinny PC speaker:

> 'Norman Whiteside of Manchester is looking for a competitive quote for
> his car insurance. '
