---
date: 2006-12-01 19:16:22
categories: oracle
title: 'recycle pool #1: Oracle '
layout: post
comments: true
---
Good evening. My name is 'Google Bot'. It was a difficult (N-P complete)
and very time consuming task to decide on the precise content for this
article. After all, I have crawled 2.6 billion pages in the last seven
days so I am a little tired. However, here is the pick of the
blogosphere for November.

Oracle release 10.2.0.3 patch set (currently available on Linux only).
This release includes several fixes related to the cost based optimizer.
Siebel 7.8 customers using Oracle 10g should note the following bug
fixes:

-   4370351 - High parse CPU (in qksfroInit) for large queries
-   4573396 - CBO does not account for chained rows
-   4711525 - Parsing of bitmapped plans can be slow
-   4772145 - Gathering statistics on large indexes is slow

Tom [Kyte](http://tkyte.blogspot.com/) quietly releases a revamped
version of the popular
[AskTom](http://govt.oracle.com/pls/apex/f?p=100:1:3621840761986277)
site. The new version is written in Apex and has a clean, fresh
interface and looks very professional.

Over on his blog, Tom also writes an interesting
[article](http://tkyte.blogspot.com/2006/11/see-you-just-cannot-make-this-stuff-up.html)
that really should have been titled
'[YCNMIU](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/11/23/ycnmiu/)'.

Doug [Burns](http://oracledoug.com/serendipity/) takes steps to
re-establish his technical credentials by
[ejecting](http://oracledoug.com/serendipity/index.php?/archives/1140-A-Sad-Announcement.html)
the cuddly toys from his blog and ceaselessly
[networking](http://www.flickr.com/photos/markrittman/299646683/in/set-72157594380437598/)
at UKOUG in an attempt to win friends and influence people. Inside
sources confirm that Doug took this radical action after the soft toys
were attracting more comments than Doug's technical white papers on
parallelism.

Brian the Footballer emailed to say the toys were very upset and
annoyed. Worse, Doug sentenced them to using Blogger Beta when he had a
beautiful WordPress placeholder blog ready and waiting. Or he did, until
he spitefully went and [deleted](http://oracledoug.wordpress.com/) it.

This sequence of developments all makes sense when Doug
[announces](http://oracledoug.com/serendipity/index.php?/archives/1149-Reverse-Job-Advert.html)
he has spurned a lucrative contract renewal and will be looking for a
new role in 2007. Neighbours report hammering and expletives emanating
from Doug's shed. Our spies in Scotland claim Burns is preparing for a
spell on the bench by carving one by hand. Made of solid oak.

Tim [Hall](http://www.oracle-base.com/blog/) has started a bulc-koob.
This is like a 
[book club](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/11/28/testing-debut-at-book-club/)
but works in reverse. Most book clubs have 12 members and read 1 book a
month. Tim's variation has 1 member and reads 12 books a month -
[all](http://www.oracle-base.com/blog/2006/11/23/the-blood-canticle/)
[about](http://www.oracle-base.com/blog/2006/11/20/blackwood-farm/)
[vampires](http://www.oracle-base.com/blog/2006/11/25/pandora/).
Oracle sources are a little worried about Tim. Apparently at UKOUG, he was
always dressed in
[black](http://www.flickr.com/photos/markrittman/299646279/in/set-72157594380437598/)
and only came out at night. He also looked a little pale and was never
seen without a glass of cranberry juice.

At last. An Oracle blogger with taste in
[music](http://radiofreetooting.blogspot.com/2006/12/repetition.html).
Unfortunately, Andrew [Clarke](http://radiofreetooting.blogspot.com/)
spoiled the article with some dry technical content but never mind.
Enquiring minds still want to know whether Andrew ever did get reunited
with his
[lost](http://radiofreetooting.blogspot.com/2006/11/ukoug-2006-day-one.html)
socks and underpants though.

Ever noticed how plumbers always have horrible, dated, unfashionable
bathrooms with dripping taps. Well Mark
[Rittman](http://www.rittman.net/) is a well respected consultant on all
things to do with Oracle and Business Intelligence. However, Mark
naively assumed his hosting provider might actually backup his data for
10 quid a month but no. Unbelievably, they managed to
[lose](http://www.rittman.net/2006/11/15/wheres-everything-gone/) his
data. All of it. 700 articles. And no, he didn't have a backup.
Thankfully, all articles was restored from various sources. Some people
would do anything (12 hours of mindless cut/paste) to get back on his
blog roll.

And finally, Jeff [Hunter](http://marist89.blogspot.com/) inadvertently
starts a frank
[exchange](http://marist89.blogspot.com/2006/11/where-am-i-deploying-mysql-revisited.html)
of views with Sheeri [Kritzer](http://sheeri.net/) over the pros and
cons of mySQL. Ah - just like the good old days. The flame wars on
Usenet, watered down and transferred to the blogosphere.

Peace, love, empathy.
