---
date: 2006-02-03 23:22:06
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: heard it on the Newsvine
layout: post
comments: true
---
Yesterday, I stumbled across [Newsvine](http://www.newsvine.com/) which
is a very impressive news aggregator. Until now, I didn't much care for
these type of sites. [Digg](http://digg.com/) left me a little cold with
too many irrelevant, repeated articles (not to mention flame wars) and
[Slashdot](http://slashdot.org/) hurt my eyes.

I currently use [My Yahoo!](http://my.yahoo.com/) with various news
feeds configured and was starting to experiment with a similar,
personalized Google [portal](http://www.google.com/ig) with feeds from
[Google News](http://news.google.com/) as an alternative.

Newsvine is more focussed on news with feeds from Associated Press,
tagging, watchlists, personalisation, discussions and your own news
column (articles, links). The interface is well thought out, fast, easy
to use and I quickly found myself exploring many different topics of
interest.

Newsvine is yet another of those Web 2.0 applications currently in beta
and needs an invitation to sign up. I anticipate Newsvine supplementing
rather than replacing [GreatNews](http://www.curiostudio.com/) as my RSS
reader (for personal and technical blogs) but it is certainly a very
impressive and interesting application.

I stumbled across Newsvine on this
[blog](http://print.wordpress.com/2006/02/02/newsvinecom-private-beta)
and the author was kind enough to issue me with an invite. If he has
none left, I also have some Newsvine invites available if you are
interested in trying it out.
