---
date: '2006-11-16 03:29:55'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: flowery twats
layout: post
comments: true
---
I am working in Oxford and booked into this small
[hotel](http://www.happylodge.org.uk/) overnight. I arrived at 18.30 and
rang the bell. No one is home.

I phoned the company who made the booking to get the phone number. They
call the hotel on my behalf. Guess what. No one is home.

The helpful man from [LateRooms](http://www.laterooms.com/) asked if I
could wait around in the cold for 30 minutes to 'see if someone turns
up'.

I was convinced my ears had deceived me and asked him to repeat this
suggestion. I politely decline his kind offer so he consults his
supervisor and offers to find me another hotel.

I reply that I wouldn't trust him to tell me the time of day and hang
up. I then drive aimlessly around Kidlington until I happen to locate
the [Holiday Inn](http://www.ichotelsgroup.com/h/d/hi/925/en/hd/ofduk).
Thankfully, this hotel has a person manning reception and rooms
available.

Later, the proprietor of the Happy Lodge calls me to explain the
situation. Not to apologise but just to explain the situation.

When I made the booking, I indicated I would be arriving around 19.00 so
that is when someone would have been around to greet me. So it was
actually my fault all along. Of course, I see now. Everything is crystal
clear. It was my mistake. How stupid of me.

The proprietor thinks I owe her an apology because she had to turn a
couple away from booking the room allocated to me but now unexpectedly
vacant at short notice.

I disagreed and politely suggested that maybe, just maybe, she might owe
me an apology.

The lady disagreed but helpfully suggested that next time I stay at the
Happy Lodge, I make an effort to arrive at the designated time and not
half an hour earlier.

I count to two and half before exploding: 'Sorry but there will be no
need for that because I will not be staying at the Happy Lodge. Not
tonight. Not tomorrow. Not next week. Not ever'.
