---
date: '2006-03-28 06:52:11'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: deep meaningful questions
layout: post
comments: true
---
The courteous, cheerful, courtesy bus driver from the car park to
Terminal 1 at London Heathrow Airport greeted me with: 'Got your mobile
phone safe, Sir ?'. Unfortunately, I was a little taken aback by this
opening gambit and simply replied 'Oh yes. I do. Thank you.'

Two minutes later, a better retort struck me 'Yes. I left my flight
tickets back in the office. I forgot to print the address of the hotel
and my photographic means of identification is back at home but, yes,
please rest assured my toy phone with its irritating ring tone is safely
here in my pocket.'

It is dull, grey, wet and somewhat blustery in London and when I get to
the 'Fast Bag Drop' desk, I am informed that my flight to Newcastle has
been cancelled and I am unable to drop my bags here at any speed.

Instead, I am redirected to the BA ticket sales desk to (hopefully) get
booked onto a later flight. When I reach the head of a very orderly,
polite, silent, British queue, I am cheerfully greeted with 'Do you know
what is going on, Sir ?' which is a very deep, meaningful, thought
provoking and unexpected question.

Infuriatingly, I missed another gilt edged chance for a witty response
and just said 'It is raining and windy so I heard a few flights have
been cancelled so I need to book onto a later flight to Newcastle'.

15 seconds later, I realised the optimal reply should have been 'Nope. I
haven't got the foggiest clue what is going on. The realisation is
slowly dawning on me that my manager, colleagues, friends (and my wife)
have indeed been correct all these years. I simply do not have a clue.
However, please, rest assured, that I do have my mobile phone safe and
sound.'

But before I could spit the words out, the BA gentleman told me exactly
what was going on. 'Well, Sir. That is only partly correct. ATC (that is
- Air Traffic Control) have limited the number of inbound and outbound
flights to the airfield (I'm positive he called one of the busiest
airports in Europe an 'airfield') due to inclement weather conditions.
Consequently there are many cancellations and even the flights that are
getting away are still subject to lengthy delays'.

And, in a very British way, I thanked him for these glad tidings.
