---
title: book club
date: 2006-04-19 03:00:42
categories: uk
layout: post
comments: true
---
I have started a book club. I am the only member. I realise that this is
a little unusual but I prefer to choose the books myself rather than
someone else (or even worse, the Daily Mail).

I held my first meeting last night which was very well attended by all
members. Norman gave a fascinating review of
'[Into Thin Air](http://www.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos/ASIN/0330353977/ref=pd_kar_1/202-2505147-5837430)'
by Jon Krakauer. This book was written by a journalist and experienced
climber who took part in a commercial, guided expedition to climb
Mount Everest in May 1996. After reaching the summit, bad weather
struck resulting in the death of eight climbers from three different
expeditions.

Interestingly, although the author achieved his goal and suceeded in
reaching the summit (shortly before the storm struck), there is hardly
any euphoria or pleasure only the grim realisation that he is half way
there, the descent is dangerous and his physical condition is
deteriorating fast with the demands of the high altitude and the lack of
oxygen.

Even though I am not a climber - in fact, I don't really like heights
(I once had to be assisted from the
[Capilano](http://www.capbridge.com/) Suspension Bridge in
Vancouver by two ten year olds) - I thoroughly enjoyed this book. It
was well written and compulsive reading. The story of the expedition
unfolding, the ascent, the mix of characters and the personal and
honest account of the ultimate series of tragic events is very sad and
truly mesmerising.
