---
title: credit card security
date: 2006-01-25 21:59:35
categories: uk
layout: post
comments: true
---
Yesterday, I had a credit card transaction rejected which is always a
little embarrassing. Thankfully, this was over the phone and not in a
shop where embarrassed people would quickly avert their gaze, thinking
'Poor man, he's probably lost his job. Just look at his clothes'.

Normally, such rejections happen because the card number or expiry date
was incorrectly transcribed and are quickly resolved - 'No I said
607**9** at the end'.

However, this wasn't the case on this occasion, so I called the credit
card company to check my card hadn't been skimmed and someone was
blowing my outrageously high credit limit (that I never asked for or
wanted but was given to me by the credit card company, funnily enough)
on holidays, fast cars, gambling, online retailers, weekend breaks in
Prague and expensive gadgets.

Firstly, we have to dance the security dance where I am asked to confirm
my full name, address, postcode, date of birth, my mother's maiden name,
the names of all my tropical fish, favourite United player and my best
album of all time.

Then I am asked for the fourth and seventh letters of my password
'without divulging the complete password'. For some reason, I find this
incredibly difficult. I can type the password in seconds but, to satisfy
this request, I always have to write the password out on paper and
slowly identify the requested characters (or digits). Then I have to eat
the paper which means I am unable to speak properly for 90 seconds.

So, let the straightforward enquiry begin. Hang on - wait a minute. The
agent is sensing a cross-sell opportunity.

'Are you interested in transferring your balance to us, interest free
for 6 months ?'

'No thanks. I only have one credit card'.

A schoolboy error. The agent has a scripted 'retort' ready for this very
weak 'objection'.

'But the 6 months, interest free transfer needn't be from another credit
card. You can transfer your ABC balance to your current account,
interest free for 6 months'

'No. Thanks. I don't have a current account with ABC. Now about this
rejected trans-'

Another fatal error. Again, I have said too much and the agent has
another 'retort' ready.

'The current account doesn't have to held with ABC. Any bank account
will do'

'No thanks. I do not want to use the 6 months interest free transfer
offer for any credit card for any bank account now or at any time in the
future.'

Finally. But wait. The agent (script) has something else to add.

'Is is all right to call you Norman today ?'

'Yes.'

Next time, I swear I will reply 'No. I really would prefer it if you
called me Janet.'

And so, finally, to the rejected transaction. It transpires that a
sophisticated, pattern matching computer program using the latest AI
techniques detected that this transaction (Flowers for the wife)
contravened the normal pattern of usage (No flowers for the wife. Ever.)
and flagged it up as potentially suspect.

Alternatively, "Computer says 'No'."

The credit card company immediately tried to contact me on the phone to
verify the validity of the transaction. However, as they were unable to
reach me on the phone, they rejected the authorisation and placed a
complete block on the credit card. I explained that I was probably on
the phone at that time to the merchant desperately trying to explain why
the transaction had been rejected.

So, everything was finally resolved, and the agent kindly unblocked the
card, I thanked them for their vigilance in the ongoing fight against
crime and everything was back to normal.

Well, almost everything. When I got home at night, I received a deeply
disturbing telephone phone call from an AI automaton who announced

'This is a call from ABC credit cards about a transaction on your
account today (normal female voice). MR NORMAN BRIGHTSIDE (abnormal,
very scary, synthesized male robotic voice).

So, I duly input my date of birth in the wrong format twice and then get
told off by a robot.

'Sorry - that is incorrect. Please call customer services for
assistance'.
