---
date: 2006-03-02 22:14:37
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: tags, categories and labels
layout: post
comments: true
---
Lorelle is getting a little
[vexed](http://lorelle.wordpress.com/2006/03/01/tags-are-not-categories-got-it/)
about the the precise semantics and usage of tags and categories.

I must confess this isn't a subject that keeps me awake at night
although I do agree that the WordPress category list tends to get a
little verbose with all those pesky tags.

However, due to circumstances outside my control, I have just had to
endure some pain and wasted time converting Outlook Tasks and Contacts
to use a flat structure with 'Categories' (rather than my previous
folder structure Contacts-Personal, Contacts-Work etc etc). Forgive me,
Father. I do not know what I was thinking of.

This is OK but it does mean that when I actually finish something I now
have to reassign the category to 'Done' instead of the incredibly
satisfying feeling of dragging the Task and dropping it down onto the
'Done' folder.

Maybe Lorelle should tell Scoble that Microsoft Outlook is using the
term 'Categories' when they really mean 'Tags'. Shock, horror.

I understand that an individual Contact may fall into several categories
- 'Friend', 'Personal' and 'Work' but part of me still thinks in
hierarchies.

When I create a directory, I normally have to think about the parent
directory so my brain is forced to think 'hierarchy'. I simply don't
have 4,563,231 files in the root directory with tags.

When I see an organization chart, I see a hierarchy.

So it is relatively easy to continue to operate in folders and hierarchy
mode when organising emails (in fact I still do) and continue in that
mindset when dealing with Tasks and Contacts in Outlook. Maybe
[Foldera](http://www.foldera.com/organize.htm) will help to change this
way of thinking.

Whenever I find myself being lured by the dark side and thinking in
terms of hierarchies, directory structures, folders and parents, I
remind myself of this excellent technical
[whitepaper](http://www.oracle.com/technology/deploy/performance/pdf/TWP_Oracle_HP_files.pdf).
This document is all about Oracle performance I/O tuning on HP-UX.

Previously I might have saved this PDF to a folder named 'My
Documents-Technical-Whitepapers-Oracle-Performance'.

This would pose a problem when I tried to find it again. Where did I put
it ? Was it in 'Technical-Whitepapers-Oracle',
'Technical-Whitepapers-Performance', 'Technical-Whitepapers-Unix' or
'Technical-Whitepapers-HP' ? Or did I forget to file it ? Yes. I know
all about Google [Desktop](http://desktop.google.com/).

Now I just add it to my [BlinkList](http://www.blinklist.com/) with the
following tags 'Technical, Whitepaper, Oracle, Performance, Tuning,
HP-UX, I/O'.

Consequently, I also have now seen the light and removed the two level
hierarchy of WordPress categories on this site into a single flat
structure.

Now, what categories/tags/labels shall I use for this wide ranging
article: 'tagging', 'tags', 'GTD', 'Outlook', 'Oracle', 'WordPress',
'categories' 'meta-data' ? Decisions, decisions.

Oh forget it. This one is 'Uncategorized'
