---
title: Theatre of Comedy
layout: post
comments: true
date: 2007-06-22 16:57:35
categories:
    - uk
    - football
---
Moss Side, near Manchester, England - Friday 22 June 2007

The hopes and dreams of the loyal and long suffering supporters of the
popular football club, Manchester City, were cruelly shattered last
night when the former Thai Prime Minister, Thaksin Shinawatra suddenly
withdrew from takeover negotiations and and unexpectedly deposited his
&pound;81 million from a brown paper bag into an unnamed Swiss bank
account.

In an exclusive interview, Mr. Shinywart explained:

'I feel so stupid but I was conned and lied to. I thought Manchester
City was a proper, massive Premiership football club. One that would
sell lots of shirts in Thailand. However, when I recently visited
Madchester to see John Wardle, I specifically asked to meet with my
two favourite players, Silvia Distin and Josephine Barton.'

'I think Distin is a superb defender and influential captain. I
intended to build a brand new team around him - a team capable of
restoring Citeh to their rightful place, a team capable of avoiding
relegation every season.'

'I am also a massive fan of Miss. Barton because I am looking for a
new bodyguard with a warped mind, delusions of grandeur and a
propensity for violence.'

'I met Mr. Waddle in a dingy Working Men's Club in a pleasant village
called Hulme and was staggered to learn that both Sylvia and Josephine
had both recently been sold. When I demanded an explanation,
Mr. Wardle said it was to raise money as compensation for an
ex-employee called Mr.  Pearce Steward.'

'I asked if we could use the money from Distin's sale to buy a world
class, international striker, guaranteed to remain injury free and
score 20 goals a season. Or failing that, Michael Owen. Mr. Wardell
then went a strange colour and mumbled that Distin had left on a free
transfer to reduce the massive wage bill.'

'I was now very angry and demanded to be introduced to the
manager. Mr.  Wardle looked a little sheepish and said they had
decided to sack him because he kept telling the truth and, in any
case, he thought I was going to bribe a Swedish adulterer with hard
core porn videos to lead us into a new trophy laden era.'

'After a silent lunch (Thai Green Curry with chips and gravy), we then
caught the 34 bus to the modern, valuable stadium. I was really
looking forward to this because I intended to sell it and share a
ground with Glazer's successful team who play in Red. Then, I
discovered that Manchester City don't even own this asset. Instead,
they play their home games in a property rented from the local
council.'

'Enough is enough. I was now very close to withdrawing my offer. I
gave Mr. Woddle one last chance to salvage the deal. I asked him for a
video of all of the highlights and exciting goals from last
season. Mr.  Wardell mumbled: 'Even with highlights, reserve games,
the Xmas party and all the cup competitions, we still didn't have
enough footage to make a DVD. However, we do have a 37 second clip on
YouTube featuring all the goals from our home fixtures.'

'So that was that. The deal is off. If I am convicted on charges of
corruption, bribery and fraud and have to spend 15 years in a Thai
prison, it will be a narrow escape compared with being the owner of
Manchester City.'

John Wardle was bitterly disappointed at this breakdown in
negotiations and issued a brief statement:

'Well, he started it. He invited me to Thailand where I bought this
&pound;4,000 Gold Rolex for 15 quid on a street market. The bloody
thing is always 12 minutes slow so I keep missing kick-off and vital
business appointments.'

'Mr. Skinnywater is a opportunistic fraudster who knows absolutely
nothing about football. I say this because he claims we need to buy
two strikers, two midfielders and a goal-keeper. So, clearly, the man
thinks English teams only have five players. What an complete idiot !'

'And another thing, when I was in Bangkok, I decided to sample the
nighttime delights of Patpong where I enjoyed a drink with a
delightful hostess. She was stunning. I truly loved that girl. I was
going to bring her home to Moss Side and marry her until she revealed
a deep voice, a preference for the rear entrance, hairy armpits and a
10" sex aid strapped around her waist. At least, (s)he claimed it was
a sex aid. I can only thank God I followed Thaksin's advice and
decided to pull out at the last minute.'

31 years.
