---
date: 2007-09-26 04:53:06
title: last django in London
layout: post
comments: true
categories: blogging
---
The problem with installing
[typo](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2007/09/25/wordpress-23-and-typo/)
is that, during the research for hints and tips to get the software
installed, configured and running on a shared server environment at
Bluehost, you Google across like-minded ~~obsessives~~ individuals who
have also successfully installed typo in 30 seconds flat.

These people are technical types who sneer at PHP and lie awake at
night, worrying about Ruby's scalability. These geeks tend to be
obsessive characters who have now tired of typo and have subsequently
migrated to a brand new exciting platform called django.

[Django](http://www.djangoproject.com/) is a Python Web framework - not
a blogging platform or a CMS - but you could use django to create your
own perfect blogging platform.

Django has a endearing, minimalist administration
[screen](http://picasaweb.google.com/nbrightside/Blog/photo#5114597340304921426)
and although the finished
[product](http://picasaweb.google.com/nbrightside/Blog/photo#5115173497282777954)
looks like a 1980's HTML page or the stripped down WordPress
[sandbox](http://www.plaintxt.org/themes/sandbox/) theme, it's pretty
impressive for 10 minutes and 100 lines of Python and HTML.

I was going to write a superb article, with lots of screenshots and
poorly formatted code blocks, detailing all the obstacles I overcame
before finally claiming success. However, as always, the very clever
aforementioned people have already been there and done that.

So, if you are interested in installing django on bluehost, consult this
[thread](http://www.bluehostforum.com/showthread.php?t=715). One quick
note: my preferred method of installing into a sub-directory failed (403
permission denied) so I used a sub-domain which worked fine.

For a more generic django tutorial about how to create a project, add
models and templates, read (and bookmark) this excellent
[article](http://fallingbullets.com/blog/2006/aug/06/wordpress-clone-27-seconds-part-1-40/).
This gentleman has a rare combination of technical skills and a
brilliant, light hearted, humorous writing style. His site also serves
as a brilliant example of the potential appearance and functionality of
a django powered blog.

In fact, if I could summon up the time and energy to master HTML, CSS
and Python, I would create my very own unique, stylish and distinctive
blog but I don't so I won't.

I was about to say there was no Wordpress to Django import utility until
I just discovered
[this](http://code.google.com/p/django-wordpress-admin/).

Am I the first blogger to have more blogs than published articles ?
