---
date: '2007-02-09 23:55:30'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: the unbearable coolness of VOIP
layout: post
comments: true
---

As part of my job, I often have the pleasure of walking around call
centers where agents use headsets to enable them to interact with a
computer while conducting a telephone call with a customer.

I have often wondered whether it would be cool or nerdy to use such a
headset myself. To date, where possible, I tend to use my mobile phone
on speakerphone so I am free to continue to type. For lengthy conference
calls (abroad), this isn't a particularly cost-effective option but
please don't tell the CFO.

With the increasing adoption of
[VOIP](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voip) within Oracle and the recent
delivery of my deluxe
[headset](http://www1.gnnetcom.com/usa2003/contactCenter/2100SoundTube.html),
I am typing this while listening to a team meeting using Cisco
[Communicator](http://www.cisco.com/en/US/products/sw/voicesw/ps5475/products_data_sheet09186a00801f8e48.html).
This is really neat technology, the sound quality surprisingly good and
even better, the telephone call is free, completely free. So please tell
the CFO.

As for cool or nerdy, let's just say I will only be doing this from the
privacy of my own home or possibly my office.

My kids think my adoption of this technology is absolutely hilarious.
They keep smirking whenever they come into the kitchen for a snack and
if I happen to be actually speaking on the device, they simply can't
contain their hysterics and have to leave the room.

In addition, my wife keeps smiling and repeatedly asking me whether she
can get a motor insurance
[quote](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/07/20/smoke-and-mirrors/).
