---
date: '2007-05-10 01:35:50'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: a triumph for slothful indolence and lethargy
layout: post
comments: true
---
Like most newly born WordPress.com bloggers, I keenly played with all
the features and tirelessly experimented with the rich variety of
horrendous 1, 2 and 3 column
[themes](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/08/08/wordpress-theme-competition/).

Then, I left home and bought a domain name from a geezer in the pub. The
downward spiral continues into self-hosting and mixing with the wrong
crowd. Inevitably, I stayed up late, dabbled in alcohol and drugs while
installing every single
[plugin](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/11/07/plugin-extravaganza/)
and widget ever created for WordPress.

You start taking ProPlus, pulling all-nighters and, unbelievably, start
[hacking](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2007/01/29/how-to-rotate-taglines-on-your-wordpress-blog/)
PHP code.

Then, I grew up and became a man. I bought some slippers from M&S
together with a pipe and grumbled away at the television ('You can't
even hear what they are singing').

The stunning [Barthelme](http://www.plaintxt.org/themes/barthelme/)
theme was left unaltered. The platform was stable but you quickly run
out of ready-made, cheap blogging material. Apart from a brief dalliance
with
[pMetrics](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2007/04/18/goodbye-pmetrics/),
Google [Analytics](http://www.google.com/analytics) silently continues
to accumulate data, statistics, lies and damned statistics. You start to
sleep in the afternoons and go to bed after the News.

Even the recent announcement of a WordPress
[statistics](http://wordpress.com/blog/2007/05/06/stats-plugin/) plugin
for self-hosted blogs couldn't rouse me from my blissful slumber. Why
bother with all that pesky download, upload, configuration and
activation nonsense wasting valuable time and effort when Google
Analytics will probably be
[revamped](http://www.kaushik.net/avinash/2007/05/google-analytics-is-re-launched-do-these-five-things-first-in-v2.html)
with colourful dashboards and a usable interface tomorrow ? And so it
came
[pass](http://googleblog.blogspot.com/2007/05/whole-new-experience-for-google.html).
Yet another triumph for apathy.

Life was good. And then Scott Wallick had to spoil it by announcing a
major [overhaul](http://www.plaintxt.org/2007/02/17/so-whats-new/) of
all his brilliant WordPress themes including
[V3.0](http://www.plaintxt.org/wp-content/uploads/barthelme_v30_readme.html)
of the Barthelme theme. As the current version is an embryonic 1.2.2,
you can't resist this temptation. After months of inactivity, you now
simply have to act.

So you reluctantly risk RSI by typing on a keyboard again. You have to
endure the tortuous download, upload and configuration process. Then you
have to use the left side of your tiny brain to merge your
[changes](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/10/10/improving-on-perfection/)
only to discover that the blog looks exactly the same and only a CSS
purist could tell the difference.

Everything that is apart from the 'Related Posts' widget which is now
completely broken. You hesitate and consider conducting an exhaustive
(and exhausting) search for a WordPress
[alternative](http://lorelle.wordpress.com/2007/02/21/blog-navigation-wordpress-plugins-related-recent-most-popular-posts-and-more/)
that is compatible with Barthelme 3.0.

Then inertia holds sway, so you give up and reinstate the perfectly
functional (if outdated and unfashionable) stunning Barthelme 1.2.2 and
slump back in your chair.
