---
date: '2007-08-29 06:13:38'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: confessions of a blog addict
layout: post
comments: true
---
> 'My name is Norman and I am a blogoholic.'

Two years ago, I
[started](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2005/08/23/firefox-and-thunderbird/)
this blog purely as an experiment to see what all the fuss was about.

Two years ago, I didn't even know what blogging was. I certainly didn't
expect that I would still be doing it two years later.

I didn't anticipate that I would subsequently play with
[themes](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/10/10/improving-on-perfection/),
[plug-ins](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/10/16/couple-of-useful-wordpress-plugins/),
spend money on a domain,
[migrate](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/09/30/from-wordpresscom-to-wordpressorg/)
to my own WordPress blog and eventually add
[Adsense](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2007/05/23/sit-back-and-watch-the-money-roll-in/).

During the first year (honeymoon period), I enjoyed monitoring the
traffic statistics for my hosted WordPress blog.

Much to my surprise, I discovered that I actually enjoyed writing.
Initially, I thought I might be capable of creating a technical blog
about [Siebel](http://www.nbrightside.com/drupal/) and/or
[Oracle](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/02/20/introduction-to-etl-for-oracle/)
but I soon discovered that I preferred to post anecdotes from my tedious
life as a IT consultant.

As a consequence of creating the blog, I learned about various blogging
platforms ([Blogger](http://www.blogger.com/),
[WordPress](http://wordpress.com/), [Movable
Type](http://www.nbrightside.com/MT/), [Drupal](http://drupal.org/),
[Typepad](http://www.typepad.com/),
[Habari](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2007/01/24/fun-with-habari/)and
Google
[Pages](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/02/23/google-launches-google-err-page-creator/))

I also learned about
[RSS](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2005/12/13/comparison-of-rss-readers/),
various Web 2.0 tools
([Bloglines](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2005/12/16/xmas-present-for-bloglines-users/),
[Reader](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2007/02/18/resisting-the-lure-of-google-reader/),
[Netvibes](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/05/25/good-vibes-from-netvibes/),
[Blinklist](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2005/11/01/comparison-of-blinklist-delicious-and-furl/),
[Feedburner](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2007/05/26/blog-milestone/))
and signed up for various social networks
([Facebook](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2007/07/25/facebook-penetration-of-corporate-america/),
[LinkedIn](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/03/03/linkedincom/)).

Most importantly, I made a handful of new friends that I am still in
regular contact with.

Then one night, I sat in a Dublin hotel room, staring at a pint of
Guiness and mindlessly pressed 'Publish'. Seconds later, I then
immediately stared at this particular vacuous
[post](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2007/07/30/how-fast-is-google-blog-search/)
and thought 'What am I doing ? Why am I doing this ? What is the point
?'

After two years, I was blogging purely because of the self-imposed
pressure to create content. Content that was valueless, worthless and
pointless.

So, suddenly and spontaneously, I decided to take a break because I
simply couldn't be bothered any more. Blogging just wasn't fun any more.

After one day, I still checked for comments, scanned the Web server logs
and reviewed my precious
[Adsense](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2007/06/12/adsense-update/)
revenue.

After two days, I read my RSS feeds for blog comments and examined my
pretty Google
[Analytics](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2007/01/06/traffic-report/)
charts.

After three days, I strongly resisted the urge to check anything.

After five days, I didn't do anything. I didn't feel obliged to write a
blog article. I didn't feel obliged to comment. I didn't feel obliged to
scan any of my 167 feeds.

After seven days, I forgot I had a blog. I actually talked to friends
and family. The feeling of liberation was surprising.

After nineteen days, I realised blogging was an addiction. An addiction
that didn't fit well with my
[obsessive](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/04/03/david-beckham-and-i/)
personality.

After twenty eight days, I realised my blog was now two years
[old](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/08/22/blog-anniversary/) (I
started my blog the day after WordPress
[launched](http://wordpress.com/blog/2007/08/21/2nd-birthday/)). An
interesting experiment which had now naturally drawn to a close.

So I was sorely tempted to
[close](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/06/02/half-time-scoreboard/)
the blog down.

But then [Doug](http://oracledoug.com/) said he
[liked](http://oracledoug.com/blog/index.php?/archives/1310-It-Must-Be-Prince.html)
'[Prince](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2007/07/16/planet-earth-by-prince/)'
so I had to start all over again.
