---
date: 2007-10-16 21:27:09
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: dead body under my floorboards
layout: post
comments: true
---
When your children ask for a pet hamster, always follow your gut
instincts and refuse.

Last night, I entered the bathroom to find my wife had suddenly and
unexpectedly replaced the tile lino with bare floorboards. She was on
her knees sanding the boards for that perfect Victorian antique looking
finish.

I carefully navigated my way to the sink and noticed my two children
huddled under the pedestal, feverishly yanking at floorboards and
ripping up plywood with their bare hands.

'Stop it. What do you think you're doing ? For the last time, it's
bedtime. I'm trying to brush my teeth here.'

'Dad - it's Gromit. He's trapped under the floorboards.'

My wife politely interjected...

'Put that bloody toothbrush down and get me a claw hammer. Now.'

And so it continued. The stylish, ivory and cream, fake Italian lino got
torn, pieces of plywood got raised and more floorboards got levered up.
Still, there was no access to the little, cuddly, brown hamster who was
squealing from under the sink pedestal. I could have sworn he was
singing 'A song from under the floorboards' by Magazine.

I resigned myself to his imminent death and yet another pet funeral in
my garden. I tried to sneak out without brushing my teeth, claiming I
was looking for creative solutions on the Internet. I slipped and broke
my ankle on pine nuts that were liberally scattered on the floor.

'Get me a pair of pliers. Now.'

Oh no. Not the torture by pliers. My wife proferred a coat hanger which
I severed in two places. She then bent the wire into an improvised
corkscrew style, helter-skelter type device for small rodents.

Thankfully, with more coaxing, the hamster managed to achieve yet
another miraculous
[escape](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/03/21/a-narrow-escape/).
This was a tremendous relief as I suspect my wife's next strategy was to
start drilling up through the lounge ceiling perilously close to
multiple water pipes.

Later in bed, I remarked 'When those hamsters are dead, we are not
getting any more pets. Ever.'

Norma replied 'Oh come on. Could you really stand there every morning
and night brushing your teeth knowing that Gromit's dead body lay just
four feet away under the floorboards ?'

'You know what Norma. You're right. He's such a lovable little hamster I
don't think I could have possibly lived with myself.'

'There you are. So you do have a heart after all. You do care.'

'I suppose I would have ended up using the downstairs loo instead.'
