---
date: 2007-10-08 16:23:43
categories:
    - football
title: Arsenal v Sunderland
layout: post
comments: true
---
I was lucky enough to accompany Norman Junior to the Emirates Stadium
yesterday to see Arsenal thrash Sunderland 3-2. An ex-colleague has two
season tickets (Section C, Row 4) and kindly offered them to me.

Although Arsenal aren't my team, it was still great to go and see a
match as opposed to my usual viewpoint perched on my barstool.

The Emirates Stadium is really impressive. The view for all spectators
is superb, there is plenty of legroom and the seats are actually padded.

We had a brilliant view from row 4 in the Arsenal 'end' and we watched
the Arsenal goalies warming up. Bizarrely, Arsenal fans derive a
disproportionate amount lot of pleasure simply from spotting their mates
in another section of the ground.

As always, Sunderland brought an impressive, loyal and vocal support for
an away fixture which the FA had helpfully scheduled for a 12 noon
kick-off on Sunday.

The game got underway and Arsenal started impressively, stroking the
ball around. Arsenal created early chances at will and deservedly took
the lead after just 7 minutes when van Persie rocketed a free kick in
off the underside of the cross bar.

Sunderland were still chasing shadows and Arsenal doubled the lead after
15 minutes when Phillipe Senderos managed to wrong-foot Craig Gordon.
While the two early goals made for a decent atmosphere ('You're just a
small town in Scotland'), I was starting to fear the worst for Roy
Keane's Sunderland.

The onslaught continued and the unfortunate Diaby had another goal ruled
out for offside. He had also netted just after the award of the free
kick for the opening goal.

Thankfully, against the run of play, somehow Sunderland managed to
conjure a goal out of nothing before half-time when Almunia (dodgy dyed
hair) blocked a shot which fell nicely for Wallace who scored.

Urged on by the tremendous away support, unbelievably Sunderland
equalised early in the second half when a powerful Jones header squirmed
under Almunia's (dodgy keeper) body into the net.

Arsenal increased the tempo to regain the lead and maintain their lead
at the top of the table. The Arsenal fans started to get restless. Toure
nearly broke a post with a powerful drive from 30 yards. The young, pacy
Theo Walcot came on as substitute and also struck the woodwork.

Unfortunately, just when I thought Sunderland might hang on for a point,
Robin van Persie latched on to a Walcott cross with a quick finish to
ensure justice was done.

Having just recovered from Noble's recent assault at West Ham, Alexander
Hleb was caught by a late, late challenge which earned McShane a red
card and prompted a rare spark of humour from the Arsenal fans ('just
like your manager').

Attendance: 60,098

[Pictures](http://picasaweb.google.com/nbrightside/Arsenal) from a prawn
sandwich munching, day tripper.
