---
date: '2007-03-26 23:07:28'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: Virgin Media V-- downgrade
layout: post
comments: true
---
Inevitably, my new best friend, Michael, the Virgin Media engineer
didn't return on Friday afternoon to complete the
[installation](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2007/03/23/virgin-media-v-upgrade/)
of V+ or to reinstate my original, functional set top box to provide me
with a TV service over the weekend.

Instead, he hurriedly telephoned me to say he had transferred this issue
to the 'networks team' who would call me later to resolve it. Surprise,
surprise, the 'networks team' didn't call me to resolve it so I had to
call them (on three separate occasions) to make another appointment.

I was trying to do the engineer a favour by suggesting he went off to
his other jobs on Friday. I trusted him. With hindsight, I was probably
naive, gullible and stupid.

A word of warning to the engineer who is scheduled to appear on Tuesday
afternoon. My wife is taking time off work to accommodate your visit
which she is already unhappy about. My wife doesn't know (or care) what
V+ is.

She is also 'bitterly disappointed' (she actually used different words)
that Virgin Media can only specify an four hour window for an afternoon
visit. As she works locally, she would have preferred the engineer to
call her directly with an hours notice.

My wife is not naive, gullible or stupid so don't be surprised if you
don't get offered a cup of coffee. There is a possibility that she will
not offer you a visitors parking permit for your van which consequently
may get clamped.

If there are any further problems this time, don't just stand staring at
a diagnostics screen saying 'I think the Hit will download in a few
minutes' or swap one brand new functional box for another brand new
functional box, do something to try to fix it.

Otherwise, there is a danger that you will be locked up in chains,
thrown into the depths of the cellar and fed on a diet of crackers and
water until the V+ service is actually working.
