---
title: non-stop erotic cabaret
layout: post
comments: true
date: 2007-07-27 18:46:43
categories:
    - uk
    - humour
---
Please don't tell Norma but, earlier this week, I spent &pound;25 in
[Shagorika](http://www.thefoodplace.co.uk/restaurants/32254/Shagorika+Restaurant+in+Sunderland/).
Such is the life of a sad, lonely IT consultant on a slow Tuesday
night in Sunderland.

Unfortunately, contrary to my expectations, Shagorika turned out to be
a rather mediocre, overpriced Indian restaurant rather than the sordid
den of sexual iniquity I was hoping for.

It took me a while to summon up the courage to cross the threshold. My
nerves were soothed when I was warmly welcomed by a beautiful,
[flirtatious](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2007/02/07/a-night-of-outrageous-flirting-in-copenhagen/)
lady who led me by the hand to a cosy waiting area. She gave me a
complimentary drink and asked me to wait a minute while she prepared a
table. A table, not a bed ! How very exotic.

I looked nervously at my surroundings; comfy seats, a well stocked
bar, motoring magazines and stunning ladies peeking out from behind
net curtains. Then my host returned with a warm smile: 'Sir, I are
ready for you now'. And by now, I was also ready for her. In fact, I
could barely contain my excitement.

My glamorous hostess led me to a table with an immaculate white table
cloth, set for 3 courses with wine glasses. Perplexed, I reluctantly
sat down. I wasn't really that hungry so I asked if this foreplay was
absolutely necessary and whether it cost any extra.

My hostess looked a little confused, proffered me a food menu and ran
back to the bar. Then the awful realisation slowly dawned. This was
not a brothel but an Indian restaurant. Words can not describe my
utter embarrassment and how stupid I felt. Particularly, as I had
already stripped down to my vest and boxers.

I immediately and rapidly got dressed again and ordered 'The Chef's
Choice'. Fortunately, I was able to bury my head in the July-August
2007 copy of [Oracle
Magazine](http://www.oracle.com/technology/oramag/oracle/07-jul/index.html)
to avoid the stares of my fellow diners.

Originally, I was going to savour this fine publication with my
partner, in the glowing aftermath of our steamy, breathless sexual
encounter.  Normally, I would smoke a cigarette but a recent change in
the law prohibits that nowadays.

One of my favourite sections in Oracle Magazine is the interviews with
real-life DBA's. However I nearly choked on my Prawn Patia as I read
this inappropriate and leading question to M. K Rizwan:

> 'What's your favourite tool or technique on the job ?'

I am now frantically leafing through my 157 back issues to see
precisely how [Tim](http://www.oracle-base.com/blog/) and
[Doug](http://oracledoug.com/serendipity/) replied to this question.
