---
date: '2007-02-07 06:41:19'
categories:
    - travel
title: a night of outrageous flirting in Copenhagen
layout: post
comments: true
---
[Well, my SEO professor said it was much better than 'Sports Bars of
Europe \#7']

Feverishly scoured the Interweb looking for alternative sports bars in
Copenhagen. Once I saw the address of my previous
[haunt](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/04/25/sports-bars-of-europe-2/),
the marvellous '[Irish
Rover](http://www.the-irish-rover.com/HTML/Home.htm)', my mind was
instantly made up.

Tomorrow morning, when the customer politely asks me what I got up to
last night, instead of 'Caught up with my email and ordered room
service', I can now proffer 'I spent a glorious, unforgettable night up
'Jorcks Passage'.

Inspired, I ran down the 19 flights of stairs down to the lobby to get a
city map which I strive to hold the
[right](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/01/13/sports-bars-of-europe/)
way up. The pretty, blonde Danish receptionist couldn't be more helpful.
She pointed to the [hotel](http://www.admiralhotel.dk/Default.aspx?ID=2)
(D2) and passed me the map with a knowing smile; 'I am hearing this
[place](http://www.antique-toys.dk/) (G7) is **very** popular with the
English business men, if you are knowing what I am meaning'.

Even with the map the right way up, I still got lost. I passed a large
City square surrounded by an ice rink and then the street signs ran out.
Desperate, I opened the map and accosted a young lady in a lonely,
darkly lit street asking for directions to 'The Stroget'. Instead of
running away, mugging me for my phone or accusing me of date rape, she
replied 'Yes. I am going that way so you can follow if you like.'

We got chatting and it transpired she had a late night at work as she
was planning for Scandanavia's largest fashion festival in 10 days.
Inevitably, as we hit 'Stroget' and the designer shops, our pace slowed
to a crawl as we stopped to admire this year's autumnal designs in a
very fetching
[brown](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/05/29/brown-is-the-new-black/).

This was going nowhere. I don't like shopping, particularly when the
outlets are closed. Kick off was approaching fast. I could feel that I
was really close to Jorck's Passage.

I had to nip this relationship in the bud. Now. 'Do you fancy coming to
watch Eng-er-land play Spain, love and maybe get a kebab later ?' My
glamorous, shapely, dark haired Danish escort suddenly recognised her
best friend and ran away.

Got a [Leffe](http://www.flickr.com/photos/70276096@N00/383224119/) and
secured a blissfully unobstructed view of the big screen upstairs. After
20 minutes of boredom, the incessant Danish flirting started again.
Personally, I blame that (3 day old) Lynx aftershave. I asked the
beautiful waitress a perfectly innocuous question: 'Is it possible to
order some food ?'

She leant over, plunging her cleavage over my pint, and whispered
breathlessly 'If you can wait till after the match, I can give you my
very own Special for 10 Crowns'. I was speechless at this unsolicited
but very welcome advance until my neighbour, an Irish student
bricklayer, translated: 'Yes. Surely. You can have a Irish Rover Beer &
Burger international friendly football special for just 10 Kroner'.

Sigh. Another chance gone.

Oh and here comes the match report. A very uninspiring, mediocre team in
white lost 1-0 to an unadventurous team in red with silly haircuts.
