---
date: '2007-03-28 11:41:44'
categories:
    - blogging
    - wordpress
title: resurrection of Performancing Metrics
layout: post
comments: true
---
Just 10 weeks after [closing](http://performancing.com/node/5610),
Performancing Metrics has
[risen](http://pmetrics.performancing.com/help/) again, phoenix-like,
from the ashes.

I didn't use the previous incarnation of this statistics package as I
had a hosted WordPress blog which didn't support Javascript. When I
migrated to my own WordPress blog, I used Google
[Analytics](http://analytics.google.com/) which is perfect for my
purposes (and free) but I couldn't resist installing the new version of
the new statistics package from Performancing Metrics.

The software was really easy to install (two lines of Javascript) in the
footer template. I really liked the real-time updates (better than
Google Analytics which has a 3 hour lag) which are pretty addictive.

The reporting interface is really smooth and polished (the icons look
similar to [Netvibes](http://www.netvibes.com/) but I presume these are
in the public domain).

<a title="Performancing Metrics Home" href="http://picasaweb.google.com/lh/photo/Z6cIcS3YlROQPP7SZAgF_g?feat=embedwebsite"><img src="http://lh3.ggpht.com/_l2uGy1RGCiE/TRDRZqtUilI/AAAAAAAABqE/fRXuhrddgC4/s640/pmetrics-home.JPG" height="480" width="640" /></a>

I was expecting high demand as people rushed to download the new
software on day one and sluggish performance. All the reports were very
quick and the system was responsive although with my data volumes maybe
that isn't so surprising.

<a title="Performancing Metrics Vistors" href="http://picasaweb.google.com/lh/photo/UyFjLFCXgeVIbXRYLrsJvA?feat=embedwebsite"><img src="http://lh3.ggpht.com/_l2uGy1RGCiE/TRDRZ-4fBKI/AAAAAAAABqI/l-vz8YXDofg/s640/pmetrics-visitors.JPG" height="480" width="640" /></a>

In addition to the standard tracking metrics (country, browser,
platform, referrer, search terms), Performancing Metrics also allows you
to analyse the page views, outbound links and path of an individual
visitor which is a nice feature.

The geographic distribution report is integrated with Google
[Maps](http://maps.google.co.uk/) which is a nice feature.

Google Analytics is a completely free service (loss leader) but as
Performancing Metrics only charges for over 1,000 page views per day,
this equates to the same thing for my humble blog.

The WordPress
[plugin](http://www.semiologic.com/software/google-analytics/) for
Google Analytics automatically filters all accesses from WordPress
Administration screens. This is better than IP filtering as I might use
3 different computers to manage my blog. This would be a neat feature
for a future release of Performancing Metrics.
