---
date: '2007-09-06 01:59:16'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: inevitable parting of the ways
layout: post
comments: true
---
When I went to bed, I closed the curtains. Unfortunately even at full
stretch, the curtains only spanned half the width of the window. This
was excellent news as I was able to cancel my 07:30 wake-up call as the
morning sun streaming into the room at 05:45 was just as effective.

The shower worked although it was a little tardy to empty. So slow, I
thought I was going to have a minor flood on my hands but fortunately
the sill was pretty deep and disaster was narrowly avoided.

Breakfast was disappointingly adequate - cereals, bread, cheese, ham,
fruit coffee and tea. The churn labelled 'Milk' was empty so I took my
chances on an adjacent, unlabelled silver vessel. Consequently, I
drenched my Frosties in natural yoghurt which was an unusual combination
but a pleasant change.

There was also a strange fruit juice which was a hybrid of mango and
orange. Similar to what is called cheap 'Orange Drink' in England;
neither fresh orange juice nor orange squash and tasting rather
artificial and very sickly.

After breakfast, I decided it would be prudent to double-check on the
availability of the presidential suite in 406 just to ensure that Carol
Smiley, 'Handy Andy' and Laurence Llewlyn-Bowen had finished building
walk-in wardrobes from MDF and covering the bed in dark red, Gothic
materials.

Slowly and carefully, I explained the situation and the pretty
receptionist duly confirmed 'Yes. Mr. Anderson. I have you booked into
room 406 for 4 nights.'

I immediately crossed over to the Hilton, heaved a huge sigh of relief
as the desk told me they had some availability and booked in for two
nights. I crossed back over the road and checked out of Grand Central 2
days early, claiming my Grandmother had just died and I had to return to
England immediately.

The nightmare was finally over. Only it wasn't. The young lady on
reception was a new-hire and couldn't process my booking (or
cancellation) using my credit card. Finally, with the unconvincing words
'OK. I have read the big book and I think I have done it now', I left,
thankful to make my escape.

I am now installed in the Hilton which is bland and very overpriced but
it's like going into Macdonalds, you know exactly what you are going to
get.

Pity really as the Dutch version of '[Flowery
Twats](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/11/16/flowery-twats/)' would
undoubtedly have provided a wealth of valuable blogging material for the
next 48 hours.
