---
date: '2007-07-01 18:16:44'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: under the covers at Wimbledon
layout: post
comments: true
---
This year, like the previous three, we applied in the LTA ballot for
Wimbledon tickets. This year, unlike the previous three, we were
allocated two tickets for Court 1 for the middle Saturday in blazing
June.

I checked the Order of Play on Friday night. My wife asked me who was
playing. I casually replied 'Oh - just some ladies playing pit-a-pat
tennis then Djokovic (Men's \#4 seed) against Kiefer followed by another
ladies singles match.'

'Are the ladies well known ?'

I manfully tried to control my rising excitement and the quiver in my
voice: 'Oh I dunno - someone called Sharapova. I think she's the pretty,
athletic one. Tall, blonde hair with long shapely legs who also does
modelling.'

After a cold shower, I checked the weather forecast, looked outside at
the torrential rain and, for the first time in 23 years, said a little
prayer before turning in.

The day dawned gray and wet. We arrived at Wimbledon, prepared for the
increased security checks. A gentleman in a blazer asked me and my son
to open our coats. An unusual request but, in the interests of homeland
security, we complied. He said 'I'm awfully sorry, Sir but you can not
wear those T-shirts on Court 1.'

We looked down at our chests. My son's read 'Blog in Isolation' and mine
was adorned with 'www.nbrightside.com'. 'Why not ?'

'Those shirts constitute "ambush marketing" which is strictly not
allowed by the LTA. Come to think of it, didn't I see you two dancing on
stage at Glastonbury last week behind Iggy Pop waving a "Bring back
Wispa" flag ?'

Undeterred, we promptly removed one layer to reveal our contingency
shirts
> 'Come on ~~Andy~~ !' 'Come on ~~Tim~~ !' 'We love you, Maria !'

'That's much better, Sir. Have a great day and enjoy the tennis.'

[Pictures](http://picasaweb.google.com/nbrightside/Wimbledon) here.
