---
title: sit back and watch the money roll in
layout: post
comments: true
date: '2007-05-23 07:35:12'
categories:
    - blogging
    - humour
---
I have had an innate
[fascination](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2007/01/06/who-wants-to-be-an-adsense-millionaire/)
with Google [Adsense](http://www.google.com/adsense/) and the correct
spelling of monetization for a while.

Countless times, I was poised to hit the 'Unsubscribe' button while
hovering over John [Chow](http://www.johnchow.com/)'s blog. But every
single time, I stopped myself. Is this guy for real ? Is he really
making thousands of dollars every months from blogging ? Does he
really eat in those posh restaurants ?

This decision to place banner ads and a sponsored search box on this
site was not taken lightly and sincere apologies to all my principled,
minimalist, long-standing, traditionalist readers.

Rest assured, the banner ads will only remain in place until I have
raised the sum of &pound;70 to pay for a replacement bathroom door in
my Prague [hotel](http://www.hotel-yasmin.cz/en/location.html) room

After a mere 10 minutes, my newly created Adsense account was
unbelievably showing an incredible return of $0.34. If this income
stream is sustained, I calculate I will have generated $14,000
(&pound;7,300) within one month and &pound;87,000 in my first year !

However, on reflection, I assume this surge in activity was caused by
my lengthy trials and tribulations with the WordPress
[plugin](http://www.acmetech.com/blog/2005/07/26/adsense-deluxe-wordpress-plugin/)
and getting the confounded advertisements to display properly on the
footer.

These experiments (767 clicks all by me) probably constituted a breach
of the Adsense Terms and Conditions so now I have the mighty
[Google](http://www.google.com/) suing me as well as
[Amazon](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2005/12/22/confession-time/).
Sigh.

Anyway, back to the original reason for the need to raise some capital
quickly. This evening, when I returned to room 516, I was informed by
reception that there is a small dent in the bathroom door. I thanked
them for letting me know, said it was no problem and they could fix it
tomorrow morning.

Unfortunately, events then took a bizarre and sinister twist when the
head of housekeeping maintained I must have been responsible as the
hole wasn't there prior to me checking in.

However, I am not so sure. Honestly, I can not recall kicking the door
in a fit of pique, my feet don't hurt and my toes are not bruised.
Still, the evidence is stacked against me.

Unless I can stage a CrimeWatch style reconstruction, tomorrow
morning, to prove that a maid's trolley laden with shampoo, lemon
scented body wash and fresh flannels was forcefully rammed into the
door by a disaffected and underpaid employee, I am in a very weak
position.

Worse, I am told that I will have to foot the bill for a replacement
door which costs &pound;70.

Now I have occasionally expensed room service, wireless internet,
movies, laundry and sundries but submitting an expense report
including 'Broken Bathroom Door' might be pushing it.

Still, with my Adsense revenues, I won't be shelling out for a cheap
pastel blue door made from MDF, I'll be buying the hotel.
