---
date: 2007-04-30 21:07:33
categories:
    - oracle
title: 'attention all Oracle bloggers '
layout: post
comments: true
---
Dust off that blogroll. Highlight your best technical posts. Update that
photo in the 'About' tab. Polish the colours on your theme. Prime the
hit counter and prepare for an invasion from the Web 2.0 'A' listers.

Justin [Kestelyn](http://blogs.oracle.com/otn/) (Oracle Technical
Network) sparked some an interesting and though provoking
[discussion](http://blogs.oracle.com/otn/2007/04/26#a439) when he
puzzled over the relatively low profile of Oracle Corporation in the Web
2.0 community.

Robert Scoble picked up the
[thread](http://scobleizer.com/2007/04/26/oracle-cant-get-blogging-respect/)
([twice](http://scobleizer.com/2007/04/27/note-to-oracle-not-me/)) and
there are some interesting comments. Certainly, I'd love to see a Scoble
podcast from Oracle Corporation.

I don't know enough about what Oracle's rivals (IBM, Sun, HP, SAP,
~~Siebel~~) are doing out there in the blogging community or how these
companies are perceived by the Web 2.0 community to know whether Oracle
is hard done by.

That said, a couple of points on Justin's original post

> 'Oracle's aggressive support of blogging'

As an Oracle employee, while Oracle encourages and supports the blogging
efforts of both employees and non-employees I think 'aggressive' is
probably overstating the case. For example, Oracle don't offer a hosted
blogging platform for aspiring authors merely a listing in a (albeit
high profile) directory.
> ' rather large blogging community'

For a company of 70,000 employees worldwide, does a blogroll containing
61 employee blogs, 10 executive blogs and 100 blogs from technical users
truly constitute a 'large blogging community' ?
It would be interesting to know how the number (in percentage terms) of
Microsoft and Google employees actively blogging compares with Oracle.

I am an Oracle employee and I have a neglected (internal eyes only)
corporate blog only and this blog for my own personal outpourings. I
have also occasionally toyed with the idea of applying for a corporate
blog. However, to date, I have always resisted this temptation because
although I am positive that a listing on
[blogs.oracle.com](http://blogs.oracle.com/) would drive a lot of
traffic and boost my ego, maintaining a corporate blog carries a great
deal of responsibility.

I am not referring to the Oracle guidelines governing content on a
corporate sanctioned blog as these are common sense and perfectly
reasonable. In fact, I am already obliged to abide by those guidelines
here on this personal blog.

Authoring an 'official' Oracle blog would immediately create a wealth of
(self-imposed) pressure on me to maintain that blog and keep adding
technical, well researched, accurate, interesting and valuable content.

In my current role, I spend most of my working time working for
customers. I simply do not have the spare time to spend maintaining a
corporate blog.

> 'Or maybe I shouldn't even care !'

Justin's closing paragraph is interesting. I am an Oracle employee and I
also hold Oracle stock. Consequently, I am more concerned with Oracle
product development and the stock price than how many engineers are
blogging this week and whether Oracle have been invited to participate
or host the latest
'[Lunch 2.0](http://www.web-strategist.com/blog/2007/04/27/dear-oracle-bloggers-host-a-lunch-20/)'.
