---
date: '2007-01-01 18:39:39'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: New Year resolution
layout: post
comments: true
---
I hereby pledge to carefully research every single customer I will be
visiting. This means talking to the account manager, reviewing
outstanding service requests and making a courtesy call to the technical
contact to confirm the arrangements and scope the work.

And most important of all, check that there is no 'Bring Your Kids To
Work Day' planned in the near future.

Friday 22 December 2006 should have been a quiet day for me. A time to
submit the final timesheet and send off expenses before the end of the
year. A time to clear out the Inbox and adjourn to sing carols around
the Christmas Tree.

But no, on the last working day before Christmas, I was summoned to a
client who desperately wanted someone on-site to look into some odd
performance problems.

As I walked through reception, I noted an unusually high number of
children running around, playing 'It' in the corporate restaurant. As I
walked up the stairs, my host kindly picked a red sticker off the back
of my jacket. 'Oh, a young lad stuck this on you downstairs.'

We get a coffee and settle down to some detailed analysis of sluggish
performance and obtuse behaviour. Or rather, we try to but our
concentration is interrupted by a screaming baby. I look across the
office to see a lady sitting alone at a desk, typing with a very
unhappy, red faced baby sitting in a buggy alongside.

I recognise the symptoms. This baby is inconsolable. This baby is
telling his mummy that he is not really enjoying this unexpected and
unwelcome change to his environment. This baby is past the point of no
return. This baby is screaming its lungs out and will be for another 10
minutes.

My host must be psychic as he senses my irritation and sheepishly
confesses: 'Today Is Bring Your Children To Work Day and all employees
are encouraged to bring their children in to the office.'

I reply 'Oh what a lovely idea. I truly wish my company introduce this
idea next year so my children can come and see me in my office
environment.' while thinking 'Oh what an absolutely ridiculous idea.
What complete idiot dreamed this one up.'

In actual fact, my children did come to visit my offices once (to reduce
a long car journey somewhere). They were simply awestruck as I walked
them down a corridor past bays of people typing on keyboards and staring
at computer screens. They stole curious glances at name tags and
paraphernalia (photos, jokes, mascots) on people's cubes. They looked,
with fascination, at sales guys closing important business deals on the
telephone.

Then we arrived at my desk which had a computer, keyboard and monitor.
No name tag. No photos of them dressed as reindeers pulling funny faces.
No office witticisms. No 'Beyond the Expected' award. No post-its. No
motivational posters. No photos of my wife. No photos of Norman
Whiteside. Nothing.

'Is this it ?'

'Err, well yes'.

'So this is where you work ?'

'Well, err, yes'.

'But it's just like your computer at home.'

'Well yes I know.'

'So what do you actually do here ?'

'Well, I type on this keyboard and look at this monitor. Oh and
sometimes I think.'

'So why do you have to come here to work ?'

'Well sometimes I have important meetings and sometimes I have to talk
to people.' (gesturing around to all my colleagues who are heads down
desperately praying I will go away).

'Oh and I have a telephone - look'.

'But it's just a telephone. Dad. I'm bored.'

'Well I do have this pedestal with a couple of books and a booklet
describing the corporate values...'

'Dad - this is so boring. Can we go now ?'

'Look kids - come on. You haven't seen the photocopier and the kitchen
yet.'

We walk up the corridor and I was praying for someone to acknowledge me,
ask me a question, rib me about the football. But nothing. Complete
silence.

'Look Norma. Here is the photocopier where I copy my expense receipts.'

'Dad - come on. Let's go.'

'But look Norman. We can't go without seeing the coffee machine and the
sports and social club notice board.'

So, if Human Resources suggest a 'Bring your kids to work day' on May
22, don't think that is a lovely idea. It isn't.
