---
title: recycle pool #2
layout: post
comments: true
date: 2007-06-07 18:37:48
categories:
    - blogging
---
Welcome to the long delayed and much anticipated issue 2 of
'[Recycle Pool](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/12/01/murky-depths-of-the-recycle-pool/)'.

We did have a world famous guest writer lined up for this month's
edition but, unfortunately, he got cold feet and decided to pull out
at the last minute.

Eddie [Awad](http://awads.net/wp/) gets ready to
[tumble](http://awads.net/wp/2007/06/03/have-you-heard-of-tumblelogs/)
by sharing interesting snippets from his feeds and travels on the Web.

[Graham](http://www.digitalteddy.com/Graham/) decides to start a
technical [blog](http://www.digitalteddy.com/techblog/) focussed on
three letter acronyms (CRM and SOA). Brave man, particularly as his
wife is expecting a new
[arrival](http://www.digitalteddy.com/Graham/2007/06/39_weeks.html) -
imminently.

I wonder if Graham will manage to find the time to mend his RSS feed
and upgrade to the recently released Movable Type
[V4](http://www.sixapart.com/movabletype/news/2007/06/mt4_beta_meet_t.html).

[Stephen](http://bclc.wordpress.com/) confirms something I have
suspected for a long time: 'I was always more of a
[Buzzcock](http://bclc.wordpress.com/2007/06/06/i-am-an-anti-christ/)
than a Sex Pistol'.

Douglas [Burns](http://oracledoug.com/serendipity/) conjures up a
superlative
[blog](http://oracledoug.com/serendipity/index.php?/archives/1276-Miracle-Scotland-Database-Forum-and-an-Apology.html),
including photos, summarising the fun and frolics at the Miracle
database forum in Edinburgh. Sounds like my sort of conference.

Kevin [Burton](http://feedblog.org/) wonders why the latest
[release](http://feedblog.org/2007/06/05/the-free-software-foundation-cant-ship-code/)
of Emacs was six years in the oven. The answer is simple: If it ain't
broke, don't fix it.

Diamond [Geezer](http://diamondgeezer.blogspot.com/) (pseudonym alert)
is lucky enough to be
[participating](http://diamondgeezer.blogspot.com/2007_06_01_archive.html#6926478524741740402)
in a trial with access to every BBC program broadcast in the last
week.

Andy [Campbell](http://oracleandy.wordpress.com/) makes a welcome
[return](http://oracleandy.wordpress.com/2007/05/25/back-again/) to
blogging, migrates from Blogger to Wordpress and adopts the stylish
Drupal theme.

Paul [Stamatiou](http://paulstamatiou.com/) designs a new
[logo](http://paulstamatiou.com/2007/06/07/new-logo-new-design/) for
his blog. I bet he would have cost somewhat less than &pound;400,000
and could undoubtedly produce something
[better](http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/in_pictures/6722205.stm) than this
[montrosity](http://sethgodin.typepad.com/seths_blog/2007/06/actually_its_ju.html).

Adam [Ostrow](http://www.adamostrow.com/adam_ostrow/) concedes that
further resistance is futile and Google now
[owns](http://mashable.com/2007/06/01/my-soul-and-10-other-things-that-google-owns/)
his soul.
