---
date: '2007-05-02 00:35:50'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: a day in the life
layout: post
comments: true
---
A blog post in the classic retro style of 'Dear Diary'. Stay tuned next
week for relationship woes, football reports, psychotherapy, unexpunged
details on my health, teenage angst, my current mood, the music I am
listening to and why I am going to be quiet for the next 13 days.

Or, as Mark E. Smith of The Fall, once said to requests for 'Bingo
Masters Breakout'

> 'Are you still doing what you did 5 years ago ?'
> 'Yeah - well don't make a career out of it.'

Stagger downstairs for breakfast to find an early morning problem. The
Virgin Media
[V+](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2007/03/26/virgin-media-v-downgrade/)
box has rebooted overnight only it didn't reboot cleanly and is stuck on
the 'Powering up' screen.
Norman Junior III and Norma Jean have already initiated a disaster
recovery plan and are glued to the standby database (2nd STB).

This is a major worry as the TV **must** be working by 19:45 tonight
otherwise I face the prospect of watching AC Milan vs MUFC in the pub
with a load of ABU's (Anyone But United). Politely ask the wife if she
can call '150' to try to get it sorted.

Drive to Oracle's offices in Thames Valley Park near Reading. I have
done a lot of commuting to customer sites recently but I can't work at
home today as I am too nervous. In addition, my wife is also at home and
I need to get some work done (rather than mow the lawn, take a tempting
lunch in a sunny beer garden or diagnose a faulty smoke alarm).

Listen to [TalkSport](http://www.talksport.net/) who are dissecting last
night's game between Chelsea and Liverpool. My abiding memory of 120
minutes of tedious football is a fat Scouser holding 6 fingers up and
another holding aloft a plastic European Cup.

Plastic Scousers. Plastic treble.

Power the laptop up and yesterday's mysterious Windows warning message
'You may have been a subject of counterfeiting' has disappeared as
miraculously as it appeared.

Sign into Oracle Instant Chat. I am making a conscious effort to use
this
[tool](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/08/04/am-i-a-technology-luddite/)
more regularly and more effectively.

Check email using
[Thunderbird](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2005/08/23/firefox-and-thunderbird/).
Nothing too important. A colleague is asking for help with a Siebel
query from hell that runs fast in UAT and, wait for it, slow in
production. The query plan and costs are almost identical so the
solution isn't immediately obvious. Offer a couple of suggestions (check
data volumes, check statistics and histograms, 10053 trace, Alert 1162).

Quick scan of RSS feeds using Google
[Reader](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2007/02/18/resisting-the-lure-of-google-reader/).
Couple of quick blog posts about 'Leeds, Leeds, Leeds' and contaminated
curry.

Update document following a comprehensive and thorough peer review.
Deliver final document to account manager. Add a couple of useful notes
to
[TiddlyWiki](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/02/27/full-circle/):
Metalink Note 391116.1 (10.2.0.3 Release Notes) and bug 5131645 (high
parse times in Oracle 10.1.0.4).

Microsoft Word livens the morning up by crashing as I click 'Save' for
the last time. I am not sure what the question is but I am convinced
Microsoft Word is not the answer. I loathe the program with a vengeance.

During the Siebel takeover, rumours were rife that Oracle do not use any
Microsoft products at all. This was supposedly because Larry Ellison
steadfastly refused to pay Bill Gates a single cent in license revenues.

Guess what - this didn't prove to be the case. Most desktops and laptops
at Oracle run Windows XP preloaded with Microsoft Office. However,
Oracle do use open standards so employees are free to use the email
client of their choice. Oracle also provide software (Oracle Connector)
to provide an email interface from Microsoft Outlook to accommodate the
sales and marketing department.

Update a second document. This is a much shorter document (site visit
report) with thankfully fewer comments and corrections.

Book flights to Oslo using the online travel system for next two weeks.
I get an 'Exception Report' because I booked a slightly more expensive
direct flight rather than going via Amsterdam and arriving 3 hours
later.

I am going to Norway on a
'[deep dive](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2007/04/30/my-plans-for-the-future/)'
but I have subsequently learned this is a technical training exercise
run by, err, me to provide knowledge transfer and actually perform some
real-life data migration with a Siebel integrator rather than scuba
diving. I have visited this customer before and they specifically asked
for me to return which was a welcome compliment.

Return the favour by reviewing a colleague's document (yes I do read and
write a lot of words in my job). He scratches my back and I scratch his
even though it is a little hairy for my taste.

It is now 11:40 and I suddenly realise I have forgotten to turn my
mobile phone on. 2 messages. The first is a scary, schizophrenic,
psychotic madman saying in a dull, menacing monotone 'Get some bloody
work done'. This unsettles me so much I think it is a Leeds fan, my
manager or a disgruntled Web 2.0 'A' lister and I immediately consider
turning the phone off again.

I also have two text messages and a voicemail from my lovely wife,
Norma. 'TV not working. Phone now broken. InterWeb down. Virgin man
coming. Call me'. This is serious - a complete and catastrophic loss of
digital services. On the night of the European Cup semi-final.

Then I remember. The phone line was very crackly last night so the 'Get
some work done' message was a test message from myself to myself. Phew.
I am not being stalked after all.

Resume document review.

Interrupted by a call from Frank, the Virgin Media engineer. He is
initially puzzled by my professional business-like greeting: 'Norman
Brightside - Oracle Expert Services. How may I help you grow your
business ?'

Frank is in his white van, en route to my house and calls me to clarify
which services are working. He wondered if all services are down and
whether some idiot had been doing some overzealous gardening and simply
severed the cable.

I tell him that I am at work but my wife is at home and she reports that
the second TV is still working. I inform him that the last time I did
any gardening was September 1991 but I do possess an
[axe](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/04/04/axe-murderer/).

Once again, I stress the importance of the main TV being functional by
19:45 for the most important match of the season. He roars with laughter
and replies he is a very happy Liverpudlian and understands the
importance of the task. I gently enquire whether his tools are made of
plastic. He roars with laughter and holds 6 fingers up (which I can't
see).

I work in building 550 alongside a group called 'License Renewals' who
just do what it says on the tin. The people working here probably bring
more revenue into the company during a single telephone call than I do
in a calendar year.

Then I call the wife and tell her to prepare the metal shackles and
heavy chains. I suggest that she deflates the tyres on Frank's van while
claiming to be making him a lovely cup of coffee.

Back to the document review. This is a very detailed review about tuning
Siebel data loads on Oracle 10g. A excellent, comprehensive document
packed with technical information and useful strategies. Make a mental
note to plagiarise most of this material and claim the credit for
myself.

Norma calls again. Frank has fixed the V+ box already. This is
absolutely amazing customer service. What on earth is going on at Virgin
Media ? A engineer onsite within 2 hours of the call and he has already
fixed the first problem.

Frank has also noted some error codes on the diagnostics screen and
offers to replace the V+ box. Before he does so, he wants to ensure I am
happy to re-enter my 'Planned Recordings' which will be lost. I tell him
to swap the box and I will reluctantly re-program 'Relocation,
Relocation, Relocation', 'American Idol' and
'[Dragon's Den](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/09/16/dragons-den/)'.

Skip lunch in favour of water as I have 4 stone of blubber to sustain
myself.

Stop procrastinating and embark on 4 weeks worth of expenses. A tedious,
unbelievably time-consuming but necessary task involving lots of
receipts, paper jams,
[printing](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/06/19/born-of-frustration/),
sellotape, envelopes and photocopying.

Courtesy call to customer I am visiting tomorrow (LoadRunner performance
testing which is normally great fun).

Wife calls. Our hero, Frank, has now resolved the issue with the
telephone line. Apparently, water had damaged one set of cables so he
has re-routed to use the second set. The root cause remains unknown.
Frank suspects the ongoing building work outside which seems a likely
candidate although, confusingly, he agrees the builders have not
interfered with the cables from the road to the house.

Finally prepare to leave office. Need to allow extra contingency of 3
hours to allow for traffic delays, earthquakes, road rage attacks, acts
of God, or M3 lane
[closures](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2007/02/15/undercover-with-surrey-traffic-police/)
that could prevent me getting back to my armchair before 19:45.

Everything was just going too well. Inevitably, fate suddenly dealt me a
cruel and unexpected card. I was thwarted by a schoolboy error. In my
rush, I foolishly fed a hotel bill together with a stapled credit card
receipt into the office photocopier. The inevitable paper jam (Lift tray
3, turn green knob, release paper jam) meant lengthy and serious
internal surgery. By the time, I finally extracted the bill, it was in
73 separate pieces. So was the photocopier. So was I.

I called the delightful Malmaison hotel in Oxford to ask for a copy of
my bill. Thankfully, for once, technology came to my rescue. The kind
lady faxed the bill directly to my office extension and it miraculously
appeared in my Inbox as a TIF attachment. I noted that the Malmaison
bill is headed 'DAMAGE'. Pretentious, moi ?

Conference call with customer about clustering and high availability
options for Siebel.

Finally, the expenses are submitted, the ToDo list and the Inbox are
both empty and I am free to go home. I pick up my complimentary copy of
Oracle Scene on the way out. Yet another perk of working for Oracle. At
least, I hope it's complimentary.

With no more distractions, the nerves, the tension, the excitement and
the sense of anticipation slowly continue to build.
