---
date: 2007-01-24 16:46:24
categories:
    - travel
title: lost in transit
layout: post
comments: true
---
Last night I returned to London from Brussels. Unfortunately, my
overnight bag didn't.

I guess this was inevitable after four years of multiple short flights
in Europe and I have been pretty lucky thus far.

Curiously, two other passengers on my flight suffered the same fate. One
gentleman was very irate. For reasons best known to himself, he had
buried his car keys in his suitcase which seemed a very odd decision.

Consequently, he had to call his wife in Oxford to drive down to
Heathrow with the spare keys. I happened to notice he held his mobile
phone a full 12 inches from his ear while he made the call to his loving
partner. Hopefully, the box of expensive Belgian chocolates he was
carrying, may help to salvage the situation.

My immediate thought was the stray bags were lurking somewhere in
Heathrow Terminal 1 whereas my new friend and ally seemed convinced that
they had never left Brussels. He was insistent that Hercule Poirot was
summoned immediately to locate the bags in Brussels and placed on the
20:00 flight (in business class with cloth napkins).

My gut instinct was reinforced when four more passengers from Amsterdam
came over to report more lost bags. Again, from the now sadly empty
luggage carousel 4. Maybe there was something interesting on TV or a
baggage handler had popped out for more tea-bags.

Ironically, I was deputising at short notice for a sick colleague so
this flight was booked at very short notice in business class. So, the
bright orange 'Prioritaire' tag didn't exactly help my kit bag much on
this occasion.

Anyway, I remain hopeful of getting my smelly clothes and stolen hotel
toiletries back; particularly when I read this bold assertion on the BMI
claim form
> 'We would like to assure you that every effort is being made to locate
> your bag using a world-wide computer network designed exclusively for
> this purpose.'
