---
date: '2008-10-30 16:16:28'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: covert operations with Surrey Traffic Police
layout: post
comments: true
---
Surrey Traffic Police should run a recruitment campaign with the tagline

> 'Join Surrey Traffic Police and see the world.'

This would appeal to young men who fancy the glamour and travel
traditionally associated with the Armed Forces but are slightly wary of
losing their lives in Iraq or Afghanistan.

In August, I hired a car mid-way through my holiday in Venice to drive
to the foot of the Dolomite mountains and also took the opportunity to
visit Lake Garda.

So that explains why, on the hot, sunny, blissfully lazy afternoon of
Sunday 10th August, I was driving slowly through the lovely small
Italian town of Spresiano.

To save money and increase fuel economy, the Brightside family were
crammed in to a rather underpowered Fiat Panda as we explored churches
and Italian villages using the delightfully, quiet country roads.

Imagine my surprise, as I left the sleepy town heading for Treviso, I
was flagged over by two Carabinieri (not Italian police - Carabinieri)
who were obviously not merely equipped with radar guns but real guns.

The official approached my window and made a polite request in
rapid-fire Italian. I looked blank and replied 'Sorry - Inglese - do you
want to see my driving licence and documents ?'
He looked perplexed and a little disappointed: 'Oh so you are English,
yes ?. What are you doing here ?'

'We're on holiday and hired a car to come to see your beautiful
mountains and Lake Garda'. I pointed at my family who were listening to
iPods, reviewing sunburn and consulting the map studiously in an effort
to reinforce my argument.

I got out of the car and opened the boot to locate the hire car
documents and dig out my driving licence. A pile of wet towels, a
rucksack, some beach shells and a large bottle of Fanta Orange fell out.
The military official looked dismissively at me.

'So - why are you having a pink driving licence ?'

A multitude of witty answers immediately sprang to mind but I contented
myself with 'Well - that's what the English Govermnment gave me.'

His colleague, irritated and curious about the delay on a routine
traffic stop, wandered over and the mood lightened. 'Oh you are coming
from London. I have been to London in 2005 - do you know Li-ches-ter
Square ?' followed by 'I have always wanted to visit Ed-een-burro'.

Finally, their checks complete, I was free to continue my journey. I
summoned up the courage and whispered: 'Excuse me but was I travelling
too fast ?'.

The two Carabinieri looked at each other and said 'Oh no - no problem -
it is just a routine stop. This is normal in Italia.'

And then, in a scene reminiscent of the Great Escape where Gordon
Jackson has his papers checked by the Gestapo and the German officer
quietly says 'Good Luck' as he goes to board the bus to which Jackson
replies 'Thanks', the Italian policeman muttered 'See you in London'.

This closing comment perplexed me and I assumed I had misheard the
Italian accent. That was until today when I received another
[letter](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2007/12/22/seasons-greetings/)
from my friends at Surrey Traffic Police. The letter formally notified
me that, on 23 October 2008, 3 further points have now been cleared from
my driving licence (leaving an outstanding total of just 3).

Chillingly, the official letter closed with:

> PS. Hope you all enjoyed your holiday in Venice
