---
date: 2008-10-08 09:34:02
title: Mike Ashley reverse 914 scam uncovered
layout: post
comments: true
categories: football
---
From the desk of Mr. Ashley. Good day. Private message to you.

I know you don't mind me contacting you by this means since we have not
met before this time. My name is Lord King Glorious Michael 'Haway the
Lads' Ashley.

Recently, my Uncle's (Sir Robert Robson of Gateshead) will was read and
to our joy and relief, he has kept the sum of $8 milion USD in trust for
the upkeep of the beloved Newcastle Footballing Club.

With divine intervention, we have already secured the assistance of the
Cockney Mafia and I humbly seek your financial aid to restore Newcastle
Barcodes FC to their rightful place (in the Championship).

However, you must act fast to take advantage of this opportunity. In the
last week, we have already hired a leading, proven, experienced,
respected manager to lead the team. His name is Joseph ('Kinnell')
Kinnear and he has already made great strides in making friends with the
local news media in order to obtain additional funding.

Newcastle Footballing Club already has some world class international
footballing stars who are household names (in Geordie households) -
England centre-forward Saint Michael Owen of Chester, Clown Prince Danny
Guthrie and undoubtedly you will have a poster of your countryman, Shola
Amoeba, on your bedroom wall.

Newcastle Racing Club Santander are a massive football club - in fact,
every single English person who lives in Newcastle will tell you that
Nudecastle are a sleeping giant. Newcastle play in a superb stadium - St
Jimmy Five Bellies Park - which has an unbelievable capacity of 55,000
people. Once, back in 1996, when we were chasing the Premiership title,
under the majestic leadership of the Messiah King Kevin of Scunthorpe,
we even managed to fill it for the visit of Manchester United.

Please wire $24.6 million dollars immediately into account 7649820 -
sort code 23-65-91 and we will proceed with Phase 2. This will require
the appointment of a fifth interim manager - the self-appointed Royal
Holiness Alan Shearer of Durham - to lift the club from the relegation
places and a subsequent under the counter payment to hire the chosen one
- a man appointed by God and equipped to save Newcastle - his name is
the Special One and will be joining us in June 2009 once the Cockney
Mafia has completed dealings with their Italian counterparts.

This will be a joint venture arrangement that will demand the utmost
trust and sincerity which you will benefit immensely from this project,
as I will rely on you for it's success. Please do indicate your
willingness to assist me through my email
'nonalcoholicpintinsixseconds@hotmail.com'

Thanks once again for your kindness may God guide and reward you in all
your endeavors as you make me realize my last dreams and wishes.

May you be blessed - Michael J. Ashley.
