---
date: 2008-02-07 17:20:21
title: England v Switzerland
layout: post
comments: true
categories: football
---
Last night, I took Norman Junior III to visit the new, improved Wembley
stadium last night to see England play Switzerland in a friendly.

After paying homage to Sherlock Holmes, we changed at a packed Baker
Street for the fast Metropolitan line to Wembley Park. We stood on the
platform as one train departed and I was just contemplating whether we
should 'go for it' when the next train arrived or step aside and wait
for the next one.

A well dressed lady was complaining to a London Transport official:
'Listen - I've been here for 25 minutes and I just can't get on any
train.' 'Well I'm awfully sorry madam but we currently have 90,000
football fans going to Wembley.' 'I can see that but I do need to get
home. It's an absolute disgrace. What about all the ordinary people ?'

Thankfully, my dithering indecision was abruptly removed by the late
arrival of some shaven headed Ing-er-land fans who charged up the steps,
ran towards the closing doors and whisked us both up and onto the
underground train into a packed carriage. Well, to be fair it was
positively spacious compared with the Waterloo & City line on a weekday
morning.

Three Swiss lads were then subjected to a deep probing English
inquisition from curious Ing-er-land fans.

'Hey mate, what language do you speak then ?' 'In Switzerland, we speak
Swiss-German.'

'Hey mate, what's the capital of Switzerland then ?' 'Zurich'

A brief lull and respite for the Swiss visitors before a final burst of
alcohol fuelled inspiration:

'Hey mate, can you sort a bank account out for me ?'

Cue uproarious laughter all round - well from those passengers who were
able to move their ribcages.

Walked down Wembley Way watching day trippers taking photos and entered
the stadium. Wondered what qualifications are needed to be an 'Escalator
Steward' and took our seats high up in the South stand with an excellent
view.

Much to my surprise, the minute's silence for Munich was observed by the
vast majority of supporters.

England appeared in yet another away kit (available from all good sports
outfitters in March). The decision to play in the away strip for a home
fixture was puzzling but it transpired that Capello ordered this after
hearing that Ashley Cole 'preferred playing away'.

At least, we were both cheering a team in Red with Rooney, Ferdinand and
Brown (or rather Wes Orange). The game got underway, Brown endured a
nightmare opening 45 minutes and Matthew Upson is undoubtedly the most
one-footed player ever to don an England shirt.

Switzerland were neat and tidy and comfortable on the ball without
really threatening the goal.

England were playing 4-1-4-1 and looked nervous. For the first 40
minutes I don't think I have seen so many sideways and backwards passes
since Ray Wilkins played for United.

While I didn't hear any booing, there was the occasional Beckham chant
and increasing unrest in the unpadded seats as half-time approached.

Suddenly, unexpectedly, something happened - Joe Cole remembered he was
an attacker, took a defender on and Jermaine Jenas gratefully scored the
first goal under Fabio Capello's regime.

After an overpriced drink, we were staggered to head the announcer
proclaim 'Please welcome the teams back for the second half - Here they
are, protecting their 1-0 lead - England !' The Italian influence
already seems to be pervasive.

The second half improved markedly until the Swiss had the temerity to
score with a well taken goal. The Swiss contingent rang their cow-bells
and chanted 'La Suisse'. Ing-er-land fans responded with 'We know you
speak Swiss-German and Zurich is your capital city.'

The hard working England captain, Stevie Gerrrraaaarrrrd, got to the
dead ball line and crossed for substitute Sean Wright-Phillips for
another tap-in.

Peter Crouch came on, Cashley Cole went off to a solitary shout of
'Where's your Cheryl gone ?' and Wayne Rooney dropped a little deeper.
In fact, he was so deep he was playing at left back, conceding corners
and passing balls down the line to Wayne Bridge.

England continued to press for another goal and an otherwise impressive
David James made his inevitable token error, flapping at a high cross.

Die hard, loyal fans who apparently are 'Ing-er-land till I die' decided
to avoid the queues at Wembley Park and streamed out of the stadium.
When the full-time whistle blew, the stadium was half-full. Part time
supporters.

The game ended 2-1 for England. The remaining Ing-er-land fans were
happy and we started the long journey home via Wembley Central herded
together like cattle on the station approach with a &pound;6 program for
company.

[![IMGP0887.JPG](http://lh3.google.com/nbrightside/R6rRWrtSQnI/AAAAAAAAAW8/kT2bzup_fqY/s144/IMGP0887.JPG)](http://lh3.google.com/nbrightside/R6rRWrtSQnI/AAAAAAAAAW8/kT2bzup_fqY/IMGP0887.JPG?imgmax=640 "Wembley Way - after alcohol, LSD and a burger.")[![IMGP0888.JPG](http://lh5.google.com/nbrightside/R6rRXLtSQoI/AAAAAAAAAXE/7kv2oKpeRY4/s144/IMGP0888.JPG)](http://lh5.google.com/nbrightside/R6rRXLtSQoI/AAAAAAAAAXE/7kv2oKpeRY4/IMGP0888.JPG?imgmax=640 "Filling up")[![IMGP0890.JPG](http://lh3.google.com/nbrightside/R6rRXrtSQpI/AAAAAAAAAXM/RdY_Hiw_2Sw/s144/IMGP0890.JPG)](http://lh3.google.com/nbrightside/R6rRXrtSQpI/AAAAAAAAAXM/RdY_Hiw_2Sw/IMGP0890.JPG?imgmax=640 "Warming up")[![IMGP0892.JPG](http://lh5.google.com/nbrightside/R6rRYLtSQqI/AAAAAAAAAXU/GSId1zTD3zg/s144/IMGP0892.JPG)](http://lh5.google.com/nbrightside/R6rRYLtSQqI/AAAAAAAAAXU/GSId1zTD3zg/IMGP0892.JPG?imgmax=640 "Idiots booing the Swiss national anthem")[![IMGP0896.JPG](http://lh6.google.com/nbrightside/R6rRYbtSQrI/AAAAAAAAAXc/UVsm_LkcLNI/s144/IMGP0896.JPG)](http://lh6.google.com/nbrightside/R6rRYbtSQrI/AAAAAAAAAXc/UVsm_LkcLNI/IMGP0896.JPG?imgmax=640 "Flag of St George in West Stand")[![IMGP0897.JPG](http://lh5.google.com/nbrightside/R6rScLtSQsI/AAAAAAAAAXo/KMAG3pG6lq4/s144/IMGP0897.JPG)](http://lh5.google.com/nbrightside/R6rScLtSQsI/AAAAAAAAAXo/KMAG3pG6lq4/IMGP0897.JPG?imgmax=640 "Calamity James prepares to clear")
