---
date: '2008-06-24 08:19:16'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: in praise of Frank Dancevic
layout: post
comments: true
---
Two weeks ago, I made my annual
[pilgrimage](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2007/06/11/surbiton-trophy/)
to the Surbiton Trophy where I enjoyed a day in the sun watching an
excellent Men's Final between Frank Dancevic and Kevin Anderson.

Norman Junior III also plays tennis at Surbiton albeit not to such a
high standard. In the lull between the main event and the Men's Doubles
Final, Norman Junior III and the juniors came on to entertain a handful
of spectators on the two main courts, performing some standard drills
with their coaches.

After two hours on court on a blisteringly hot day, I expected the
[winner](http://www.lta.org.uk/News/All-news-items/Dacenvic-Wins-Mens-Title-in-Surbiton/),
Frank Dancevic, to hoist the trophy for the obligatory photo, pocket his
cheque and beat an hasty retreat to get a shower and a cold drink.
However, much to my surprise, Dancevic joined in with the boys and girls
playing with some 6 year olds on a quarter size court with orange balls.

Dancevic was absolutely brilliant with the kids, laughing and joking and
even throwing in some grunts if he struggled to make a return. He then
rallied with some up and coming teenagers who were very keen to score a
point off the professional. Even after the fun session was over, Frank
still made more time available to chat and sign the kids' tennis bags.

Last night, on Court 1 at Wimbledon, there was a minor
[shock](http://www.wimbledon.org/en_GB/news/match_reports/2008-06-23/200806231214250890687.html)
as Frank Dancevic beat David Nalbandian in straight sets (6-4, 6-2,
6-4). Nalbandian was the 7th seed for Wimbledon while Dancevic is ranked
98 in the world and unseeded.

Well played Frank and good luck in the next round against Bobby
Reynolds.
