---
date: '2008-07-13 19:50:20'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: chance meeting with man in Gents toilet
layout: post
comments: true
---
In my job, I am often summoned into very important, high powered
meetings at short notice. It doesn't matter what I am doing, who I am
doing it with or where I am, I simply have to make my apologies and
leave.

Last week, a client took this approach to conducting business to
extremes. I was standing at the urinals, fondly remembering previous
posts on
[manners](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/05/11/standing-at-the-urinals/)
and officious, distracting and confusing corporate
[directives](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/07/06/just-do-what-you-are-told-2/).

As I attended to business, a gentleman in a dark suit, no tie (yes,
you've guessed it - 'Dress Down Friday') and wearing a rather
incongruous pair of white trainers, came into the adjacent stand.

'Hi, David. Listen - just a quickie. I just want to check that we've
covered all bases before the call at 3:30'

I looked down. Thankfully, I hadn't covered all bases and everything had
landed in the urinal. If only she could have witnessed this, Norma Jeane
would have been so proud.

'OK Dave. That sounds cool but Debenture will be on the call so I just
need to check we are all aligned.'

I looked down. We weren't really aligned that well. Subconsciously,
uncomfortable at my noisy, immediate neighbour, I had slightly turned
away. Acceding to his plea for corporate alignment and strategic
business partnerships, I re-aligned myself by facing forward.

'Listen David - I don't think your team really appreciate the enormity
of the matter in hand here.'

I snatched a surreptitious glance sideways - above average perhaps -
certainly not enormous but then Norma Jeane does say that men do tend to
exaggerate a little.

'David - look if we don't get any joy in the next 25 minutes, we are
going to have to escalate this to the very highest levels.'

Well, I would probably describe what I had just experienced as 'relief'
rather than 'joy'.

Pause. Bliss. Peace at last.

'David - are you still there ? Speak up. The reception is this place is
appalling - it's as if I am calling from a toilet. Absolutely.
Unfortunately, the worst case scenario does mean dragging Anthony into
this.'

What did this idle threat mean ? Was the mysterious 'Anthony' was going
to be summoned from cubicle \#3 to join us in a Holy Triumvarate ?

'Hey Dave - I fully understand your position but I am going to have to
drop off the call now.'

With that, the important man in the suit and white trainers, equipped
with the Borg headset, ended the call, shook hands with the unemployed,
pulled his zipper up and left the Gents urinals.
