---
layout: post
title: milestone release for Oracle database
date: 2008-03-31 00:56:29
comments: true
categories: oracle
---
Oracle Corporation - Redwood Shores, near California.

Oracle today announced the release of a major maintenance release of
version 11g of the companies flagship database server product.

Charles Phillips took the world by surprise by making a major
annnoucement a full six months ahead of Oracle Open World as he
addressed the media (including 17 carefully selected representatives
from the blogging community):

'This release is the culmination of years of engineering effort aimed at
delivering deterministic and reliable performance with the very highest
levels of throughput. Oracle 11gR7 offers proven scalability for all
Oracle applications including universal support for third party (aka
legacy) applications while simultaneously reducing the cost of ownership
and maximising the return on investment for all our customers.'

'Oracle are delighted to annouce the immediate availability of Release
11.1.0.7.0 which is now available for every single platform (well apart
from OpenVMS).'

'The release includes the productisation of a previously, hidden
parameter known only to highly paid consultants. Previously, the
configuration setting could only be invoked by dressing up in long white
robes, waving a magic wand while dancing over sheep's entrails and
simultaneously chanting holy, mystical incantations. The parameter
previously known as '\_GO\_FASTER' is now available as a documented
SPFILE parameter with possible values of 'FALSE, SAFE, CHEAP, TRUE or
TURBO.'

Wall Street analysts were staggered at the news and, as soon as they
sober up after yet another Web 2.0 lunch, they will give their carefully
considered verdict but the Oracle stock price is expected to rocket
following the press release.

Oracle also hopes to have a back-port for Oracle 10g and the legacy
Oracle 9i database server available by the end of the month.
