---
date: '2008-02-01 22:20:32'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: back seat driver
layout: post
comments: true
---

Since accumulating 9 penalty
[points](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2007/12/22/seasons-greetings/),
Norma has been very worried about the possible consequences of my
irresponsible actions and dangerous driving. A driving ban would have
severe, wide reaching consequences for my glamorous job in IT
consultancy, affect our busy social life not to mention the logistics of
ferrying the kids to all their hobbies.

After lodging an appeal with Surrey Traffic Police, I gleefully accepted
a place on a half-day 'Speed Awareness Workshop'. Attendance at the
workshop cost &pound;95 but was in lieu of the proposed 3 point penalty so was
well worth the money. Plus the instructor was an attractive lady. After
registration, coffee and friendly introductions, we all swapped amusing
anecdotes of our various speeding offences, recounted hard luck stories
and were tested on stopping distances in the rain.

After lunch (lovely sandwiches and volavons), we all looked at some
horrific photographs of mangled car wreckage, listened to victims of car
accidents and, worse of all, watched the instructor viscously smash a
peach on the table with a claw hammer.

As I wiped peach juice off my face, I cunningly positioned myself next
to the instructor for the grand finale which was an evangelical type
experience where we all hugged each other and proclaimed in a single,
united and very loud voice: 'In the name of the Father, the Son and
Surrey Traffic Police we hereby pledge, that we will never exceed the
speed limit ever again'.

The only problem was that the roads were really empty on my route back
home and the weather conditions were dry with excellent visibility. I
was a little late for my evening meal (Chicken Kiev on Tuesday night),
Manchester United were playing live on TV and so I promptly picked up
another &pound;60 fine and the very 3 penalty points, I had spent the
afternoon avoiding.

Norma was not pleased. Since then, I have been accompanied on every
single trip by a new backseat driver. A voice from the passenger seat
who keeps piping up:
> 'Speed camera, 500 yards. Limit - 40 miles per hour'

'Yes, yes OK, I know this road and I am doing 42 mph and they never do
you for that.'
> 'Speed camera. Limit - 40 miles per hour. Reduce speed.'

'All right. All right. Just shut up will you ? I am down to 39.5 mph
now.'

When the danger has passed, the backseat driver gives a distinctive 3
toned whistle and is silent until she spots the next possible hazard.
Once again, my irritating back seat driver pipes up in that dull,
monotone voice
> 'Possible mobile camera site ahead. Limit - 50 miles per hour.'

We all frantically scan the landscape for police hiding in the bushes
wielding a hand held radar gun and wait for the triumphant 3 tone
whistle that means 'OK - put your foot down.'

Sometimes I am sorely tempted to go for a crafty drive on my own without
my back seat driver in attendance.

Sometimes, I am tempted to ask the back seat driver to shut up and just
let me drive.

Sometimes, I am tempted to silence the back seat driver by cutting her
communcation cord.

Sometimes, I am tempted to grab the back seat driver by the neck and
shove her back in the glove box.

But I can't because the back seat driver is my
[friend](http://www.activegps.co.uk/novus-delta.htm).
