---
date: 2008-06-15 09:55:58
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: BRU-LHR
layout: post
comments: true
---
On Friday I returned from a very enjoyable week in Brussels. Hard work,
challenging customer and miscellaneous technical issues. However,
unusually, I had the pleasure of the company of a few of colleagues so
we were able to have a chat over a meal and share a few excellent beers
together.

Over the past five years, I have visited so many European airports, that
they all tend to blur into one. However, certain key characteristics
soon reminded me that I was indeed back in Brussels.

The lenghty queue for the 123 taxis to pass the roadworks to reach the
set down area. The massive queue to clear passport control. The cursory
glance at your passport from the policeman followed by a grunt. The long
and winding road to security. The same officious, self-satisfied,
arrogant security staff. Unfortunately, this queue doesn't actually move
as crew (acceptable) and security staff, cleaners, shop assistants (less
so) keep jumping the queue because they are so important.

The short flight itself is uneventful enough although there is a little
turbulence on the descent into London. Then, as I fold my tray and
return my seat to the upright position, fear is struck into the very
core of my heart as I witness something no-one should ever have to
witness on an aircraft.

My immediate neighbour reaches into here rucksack for a bottle of orange
Powerade. She stands up and screams 'For the glory of Allah !' and
switches her digital watch to UK time. No, no - only joking.

Suddenly and without any warning, the young lady next to me reaches for
the 'Call' button with her left hand while simultaneously extracting the
'Sick Bag, unfolding it and skillfully placing it under her mouth.

I respond by edging away, averting my gaze and covering my knees and
expensive Pierre Cardin suit with various sections of the Daily Mail. I
note an interesting story about fashions for the summer on my right
thigh.

The BA stewardess comes promptly and is kind and reassuring. A glass of
iced water arrives and she dispenses some magnificent advice on coping
with motion sickness: 'Take your jacket off to stay cool, keeping
sipping the water and oh - don't forget to breathe.'

Once we clear the cloud cover, the flight is smooth once again and the
potential crisis is averted.

We land at Terminal 5 and park on a remote stand. Unfortunately, the
young lady is unable to disembark, get some fresh air and rush to the
nearest lavatory. After 10 minutes, the smooth, well-spoken co-pilot
announces the bad news:
> 'I'm awfully sorry, ladies and gentlemen but there will be a slight
> delay. We are just waiting for some steps and buses to be brought to
> the aircraft but BAA groundstaff have been practising for the
> tomorrow's arrival of George W. Bush and there are now significant
> delays as a result.'

After 15 minutes, no-one screams with delight or initiates mock applause
at the sight of a single bus. We are British, you see. The steps arrive
5 minutes later so half the passengers are free to disembark. But not
us, sitting in rows 15-28.

I contemplate brandishing a bottle of Lemon Powerade and and screaming
'Take me out of here to the land of Heinz 57 vestal virgins. Now.' While
this might accelerate my exit from my plane, it might leave me with some
explaining to do.

Finally, after 35 mins, we descend the steps. The co-pilot was indeed
correct. BAA have been busy practising for Bush's arrival. There are
eggs, rotten tomatoes and discarded placards strewn across the tarmac. I
pause briefly to kiss the ground before boarding the bus. I am left with
the pungent after-taste of rotten egg in my mouth.

How ironic, given his record, that the outgoing President refuses to
enter the UK at a military base and instead chooses to bring chaos to
Heathrow just to get his ego stroked.

We now enter the Stargate style timewarp in order to enter the main
Terminal 5 building. Well, it must be a timewarp because on my outbound
journey, I noticed mutiple signs containing the dire warning: 'Please do
not enter Satellite B unless your flight departs from 'B' gate. It will
take (at least) 40 mins to return.'

Which is weird as it took me just 5 minutes, using the timewarp.
