---
date: 2009-08-07 09:06:48
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: the other side of Aboriginal culture
layout: post
comments: true
---
Of course, unfortunately, there is another less attractive side to
[Aboriginal
culture](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2009/08/07/aboriginal-culture/).

When I last visited Australia in 1990, we took a flight to Alice
Springs. Back then, Uluru was more commonly known as Ayers Rock and
people were freely able to climb the massive sandstone rock. I used to
be quite proud of the fact that I had scaled Ayers Rock and written:
'Nice view, bit busy, could use an ice-cream stall' in a tatty visitors
book on the summit. Now the rock has subsequently and rightfully been
returned to the local Aboriginal communities who view it as a sacred
site, I am almost ashamed of the fact.

Twenty years ago, en-route to Alice Springs we saw small groups of
Aboriginals congregating in dry creeks, drinking and obviously under the
influence of alcohol and we heard that sometimes, they perished when the
rains came and the creeks flooded. On this visit, we also saw small
clusters of Aboriginals on parkland, sitting, chatting, drinking and
occasionally shouting and arguing.

Now this behaviour can be (understandably) intimidating to tourists but
to be honest, I walked straight past and the Aboriginals didn't pass me
a second glance. They didn't speak to me, they didn't harangue me, they
didn't ask me for money. In fact, I've had more hassle off beggars in
the South Bank underpass at Waterloo station in London.

It was as if we simply didn't exist and in many ways, I suspect they
probably wish we didn't. Not in their country anyway.
