---
date: '2009-03-25 16:35:13'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: weird subliminal messages from Wiki demigods
layout: post
comments: true
---
Recently, I started messing around with
[DokuWiki](http://www.dokuwiki.org/dokuwiki) as a
[replacement](http://www.nbrightside.com/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=tag:bookmark&do=showtag&tag=bookmark)
for Google Notebook (which Google have helpfully decided to
[ditch](http://googlenotebookblog.blogspot.com/2009/01/stopping-development-on-google-notebook.html))
and [Diigo](http://www.diigo.com) (after the well publicised and
unfortunate collapse of another cloud bookmarking service -
[ma.gnolia](http://ma.gnolia.com/)).

In recent months I have also contributed to the [Habari
Wiki](http://wiki.habariproject.org/en/Main_Page) (MediaWiki), looked
briefly at [WikkaWiki](http://wikkawiki.org/HomePage) and read Michael's
interesting, thought provoking article about his Wiki nirvana
[wishlist](http://www.twofishcreative.com/michael/blog/2009/03/10/what-i-want-from-a-wiki)
with interest.

Last night, a throwaway [post](http://identi.ca/notice/2986518) by
[Douglass Clem](http://identi.ca/crashsystems) about
[TiddlyWiki](http://www.tiddlywiki.com/) resurrected my interest in my
own long neglected, unloved local TiddlyWiki which I then upgraded to
the latest version and then pondered consolidating that content into
DokuWiki.

Today, a couple of colleagues expressed an interest in a group wiki at
work for knowledge management so I have just requested a hosted
[TWiki](http://twiki.org/) (which coincidentally is being upgraded
tonight) behind the Oracle corporate firewall. I am curious to see
whether it will fare any better then the placeholder, skeleton
[Siebel](http://wiki.oracle.com/page/Siebel) page, I carefully seeded
when Oracle first launched the official, public Oracle
[Wiki](http://wiki.oracle.com/) (Wetpaint) nine months ago.

And now, I discover that today, Wednesday 25 March 2009 is the
[Wiki](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ward_Cunningham)'s 14th
[birthday](http://blog.aboutus.org/2009/03/25/wikibirthday-2009-14-years-of-collaboration/).

You may say 'So what ?' and attribute all of that to pure coincidence.

You may not find that spooky and disconcerting but I do.
