---
date: 2010-07-02 11:12:00
categories: uk
title: bang the (ear) drum
layout: post
comments: true
---
[ Working title: Torture on a shoestring ]

A couple of weeks ago on a normal, routine Tuesday morning, I did what I
do every morning; showered, prepared for work and cleaned my ears out
with a cotton wool bud. As I went to leave the bathroom, I swung my arms
up and around to put my dressing gown back on for the short trip down
the upstairs landing.

[ This requirement to be modestly covered up follows an unfortunate
incident in April 2009 when my teenage daughter had a sleepover with
three friends staying over. Apparently, one poor girl can not even look
at a Chippolata sausage ever again. Needless to say, I conducted my own
defence and was acquitted. Again. ]

Anyway, as I simulataneously hoisted both arms up to don my long,
flowing, white, silk robe adorned with ‘MUFC - Champions 2008' on the
back, I felt pain. A lot of pain. Searing pain that made me feel quite
dizzy. I paused for breath and suddenly realised I had inadvertently
rammed a cotton wool bud, deep and hard, into my right ear.

It was so painful, I didn't even shout, exclaim or swear. Instinctively,
I reached for my right ear and gingerly extracted the cotton wool bud. I
felt more pain. I clasped my hand over my ear and half expected my palm
to be dripping in blood. Thankfully, there was no blood - just numbing
pain.

I gingerly made my way back to my bedroom and sat down as I felt quite
faint. After a few minutes, the pain subsided slightly to a constant,
painful throb and I was able to get up and get dressed.

I am constantly amazed at the human body's resilience and powers of
natural healing so I just waited for the ear to heal. The next few days
were quite interesting; the feeling was similar to what I would expect
after standing adjacent to a 30 foot Marshall amp stack for the full 3
days of Glastonbury with slight loss of hearing, ringing, dull pain and
various popping noises similar to the sensation you get when descending
in a aircraft.

Eventually, Norma asked why I was popping Nurofen all day every day so I
had to own up. As expected, she took great delight in my agony as she‘d
always claimed ears were self-regulating organs and simply do not need
to be cleaned daily with a blunt instrument which causes more harm than
good. She showed me great sympathy by saying: 'Well, I bet it was
absolutely nothing like child birth.'

I pondered on this for a while and concluded she was right - I had
merely rammed a very small, narrow foreign object into the human body
via a small orifice with great force whereas childbirth consists of
ejecting a natural body out of the human body via a, err, slightly
larger orifice with moderate force. However, I decided it might be
prudent to maintain a dignifed silence (in case she slapped me on the
ear) and the very thought ot childbirth and bodily fluids made me feel
slightly queasy again.

Days passed but the pain and odd sensations didn't so I went to see my
Doctor primarily as I had some concerns about flying in a plane with a
perforated eardrum.

Inevitably, the consulation with my GP was livened up by me pretending
not to hear when she opened up with ‘Now, Mr. Brightside, how can I help
you today ?' and I responded with ‘Sorry - what did you say ?', ‘Pardon'
and ‘Can you speak up a little ? I have a slight problem with my right
ear.'

As I sheepishly confessed to my idiotic, self-inflicted act of
stupidity, the Doctor listened attentively and nodded knowlingly -
'Don't worry Mr. Brightside. I've seen people who've inserted all sorts
of things into all sorts of, err, irregular, places.'

Fair play to the lady GP. She immediately grabbed her menacing ear probe
with the triangular metal end and integrated torchlight and responded
with ‘OK then, let's have a good look in 'ere' and the odd ‘Ooh - what
have we 'ere ?'.

She gently inserted her probe (soft porn SEO keyword search alert) and
promptly reported the ear was too inflamed to see whether the ear drum
was intact or perforated. She reassured me (sort of) by saying the cabin
pressure in a plane wouldn't be an issue if the eardrum was perforated
as the air would simply ‘whistle straight through the hole'.

She then asked me if I had any other specific worries or questions and I
replied ‘Not really - it's mainly the prospect of flying. Oh and I did
want to ask you about the leaking brain fluid…' ‘Brain fluid ?', she
interjected in a serious tone. ‘Yes - when I wake up my pillow has all
this yellow/brown-ish liquid where my head's been resting and my wife,
who is a qualified nurse, told me it was just my 'brain fluid' leaking
out.'

‘Well - with respect, I think your wife might be mistaken or having a
little joke. I'm pretty sure this is just residual fluid from the
inflamed area as the body recovers but I'll prescribe you some
antibiotics which will help clear up the infection.'

The ear is now almost completely healed. I have thrown away the bumper
pack of 240 ear buds although my right earbud now keeps falling out on
when I listen to music on the train.

The memory of the ‘ear drum' incident is now receding but I'm pretty
sure intelligence agencies and the military could use this technique to
produce a cheaper and much more efficient form of torture.
[Waterboarding][] is well publicised and effective but can get very
messy and is very wasteful of a precious natural resource.

Imagine, in the next James Bond film, the baddie enters the
interrogation cell armed - not with a large belt or a car battery and
two electrical diodes - but simply brandishing a single cotton wool bud.

  [Waterboarding]: http://davidmarsden.info/waterboarding-on-the-nhs

