---
date: '2010-08-24 13:33:00'
categories:
    - uk
    - travel
    - humour
title: where's the crane ?
layout: post
comments: true
---
<a href="http://picasaweb.google.com/lh/photo/-nLJKv8_fvJvAnGtJ-_Pug?feat=embedwebsite"><img src="http://lh6.ggpht.com/_l2uGy1RGCiE/THPAS6mHZMI/AAAAAAAABm4/gGMyTKYuAHg/s400/airport_parking.jpg" /></a>

‘Where's the crane then ?'

We had just embarked on our summer vacation to sunny Marbella (near
Spain) and were sitting on the shuttle bus taking us and our suitcases
from long stay parking to the North terminal at Gatwick airport.

‘Sorry what did you say ?'

‘The crane that gets the cars - where is it ?'

As I pondered what on earth my intelligent teenage son was on about, I
sensed other passengers on the bus pricking up their ears in interest.
The bus was now deathly quiet, in a very British way, as the small
audience attentively and patiently waited for the next exciting exchange
in this bizarre conversation.

‘Sorry, son but what on earth are you talking about ?'

‘Well - we came to one of these massive car parks at this airport a few
years ago when we went to Florida…'

‘Yes - I remember. It's because it's cheaper than getting a taxi and
more convenient than catching the train.'

‘Yes. Well back then I looked at the massive car park area packed with
loads of parked cars. Row after row of parked cars, all tightly crammed
in, and I asked you 'How do they get the cars out when people return
from their holiday ?'

I listened intently together with the other thirteen people on the
‘Summer Special' shuttle bus and sensed the driver was also now
captivated.

‘And you (nods in my direction) told me that a massive crane swung round
to the correct row, dropped down to the exact postion, lifted up the
car, rotated back round and slowly lowered the car precisely into
position on the exit lane.'

I made a spluttering noise as I tried to stifle my laughter. ‘Sorry. I
said what ? No, no - I never said that.'

Norma Jeane now piped up ‘Oh yeah - I remember now. You did say that.'

People looked away. I could see them thinking ‘Oh - look at that tall,
handsome teenage boy. He looks perfectly normal but he actually attends
Special School and now his selfless parents are taking him away for a
lovely holiday.'

‘So - where's the crane then ?'

‘Norman Junior - listen. I might have said that as a joke when you were
6 years old but the cars are parked in lanes according to the date and
times when people are scheduled to arrive back at the airport. For
example, all the cars for tomorrow will be parked in lane 27 with cars
belonging to people getting back in the early morning parked at the
front. Then the men just drive the cars round ready for people as they
arrive.'

‘Oh - so there's no crane then ?'

‘No - sorry son but there's no crane.' I could no longer contain myself
and burst out laughing.

My son looked disconsolate and fell silent.

‘Son - you haven't told any of your mates at school this little story,
have you ?'

‘Nah. All that worries me now is how many other little stories you've
told me over the years.'
