---
date: 2010-09-17 15:30:00
categories: uk
title: iPoser
layout: post
comments: true
---
This morning, a gentleman was reading a copy of The Times on my South
West Trains service bound for London Waterloo. Nothing too surprising
about that.

However, this man continued to intently consume the day's important news
stories as he left the train and made his way down to the Underground
network.

This chap wasn't reading a newspaper though. He was an early adopter so
he was reading the electronic version of The Times on an Apple iPad.
Clearly, the content is so captivating, the display is so sharp and the
font is so crystal clear that he simply has to continue reading the news
as he descends the staircase at platform 4, tightly packed in a mass of
humanity, down to the Waterloo and City line.

I'm not a rabid Apple hater. I think Apple are an innovative design
company who have helped spark some much needed competition; particularly
into the mobile ‘device' market.

What irritates me though is the fact that this chap wasn't using the
iPad like people use a newspaper. People don't generally read a
newspaper as they descend a set of stairs. People generally don't hold
a device costing over &pound;400 (although I suspect this chap
splashed out on the 3G/WiFi/64GB version which costs a staggering
&pound;750) out in front of them and nonchalantly pretend to to
fascinated at the content while navigating a set of steps and
simultaneously being jostled by rushing commuters from all directions.

This gentleman was doing this for one reason and one reason only -
fervently hoping and praying that someone, just anyone, would look at
him and his fancy tablet, maybe even ask him about it, exclaim ‘Wow !
Alan - look, that guy's got an iPad !' or just surreptitiously try to
look over his shoulder to catch a glance of last night's football
results.

Part of me was urging him to lose his footing, tumble forward down six
steps, falling flat on on his face, dropping his fancy, overpriced,
electronic gadget, shattering the screen in three places.

But unfortunately he didn't. Despite me barging into him. Twice.

What a complete iPoser.
