---
date: '2010-04-30 10:07:03'
categories:
    - software
title: thoughts on browser usability
layout: post
comments: true
---
[Jake Kuramoto](http://theappslab.com/about/) from Oracle Apps Lab has
a great
[post](http://theappslab.com/2010/04/29/how-do-you-get-to-facebook/)
about common search terms for the three main search engines and notes
that 'facebook.com' (and variants thereof) appear in the lists of most
frequently used keywords.

Recently, I have been observing my wife who is a non-technical
(Firefox) user although I must admit to a vested interest here. I am
keen to understand any areas where Linux Mint is 'worse then
Windows'. Over the last few weeks, I have noted the following:

The Web browser is Firefox 3.6 and the starting page is a
single tab - Google.com (my choice).

[![image](http://lh4.ggpht.com/_l2uGy1RGCiE/S9qZ22ROL5I/AAAAAAAABg8/lrAbGji3aHg/s400/Screenshot.png)](http://picasaweb.google.com/lh/photo/ZJS8JDKA4zwaqr8Uv2csjw?feat=embedwebsite)

This start page is minimalist in the extreme and dominates the screen.
The user is instinctively drawn to this large, central area of the
screen. Note to Google designers: This striking, beautiful minimalism
is rather spoiled once you use the mouse.

My wife's Web session starts here. It always starts here. She might be
searching for 'john lewis', 'maths revision guides', 'how to kill
husband and get away with it' or 'weather london'. It is entirely
logical that, if she wants to visit Facebook, she will simply hit
'Home' and initiate another 'mini-session by searching for 'facebook'
(or some variant).

This may not the the quickest, optimal way of getting the job done but
it's quick enough, it works and it is a learned behaviour.

I agree about search being more forgiving than typing raw text into
the address bar. Google does the right thing with 'facebok' but the
address bar doesn't. Don't try this experiment at work as it's
potentially NSFW.

However, I think the key issue here is more about usability. The
Google search page dominates the screen and the centrally placed
search box dominates the Web page. Her eyes are drawn towards it. It
is much harder for the brain to even consider the alternative options
of 'address bar' 'search bar' or even 'Bookmarks' because these
options are located at the top of the screen and are tiny in
comparison - almost inconsequential. Therefore the brain has to do
more work - particularly for 'Bookmarks' which nestles between
'History' and 'Tools'.

Coincidentally, I recently exposed the Bookmarks Toolbar with just two
sites (Amazon, Facebook). These icons are now relatively large and
easily visible and using them to quickly navigate is just a single
mouse click but I don't believe she uses them. Old habits die hard
perhaps.

This isn't being patronising but I don't believe she knows what the
address bar is. Until recently, she didn't know what the search bar
was. When I explained that the 'Google' in the bar and the magnifying
class icon indicated you could search by typing into this text box,
her reaction was 'Oh so it's like the Home page but smaller'. I am
sure this mentality isn't unique among novice and non technical users.

She finds it confusing that the address bar takes things like
'amazon.com' (URL's) whereas the search bar takes 'amazon UK books'
(search terms) and gets the two confused. Mostly this ambiguity
doesn't affect the end result but it's confusing and poor UI design.
Chrome addresses this nicely with a single unified bar which is
exactly how it should be.

My wife often bookmarks stuff and recently complained that 'Bookmarks
don't work. I can never find stuff again.' It transpired that she
expected her lengthy list of Bookmarks to be listed in reverse
chronological order and was unaware of the 'Recently Bookmarked'
submenu. But then again, that's a extra click. Again, more work for
the brain and people are lazy.

Although I am not a Web designer, I find usability and user interface
design a fascinating area. I would love to conduct detailed interviews
with my wife, my kids and my father to compare and contrast their
usage of their respective computers.
