---
title: CRM - Royal Mail style
layout: post
comments: true
date: '2011-01-02 16:22:00'
categories:
    - crm
    - uk
---
Before Christmas, my friendly postman tried to deliver a parcel when
no-one was home. Instead of leaving the parcel propped up by the front
door to be buried under the falling snow, inviting passers-by to steal
the potentially valuable item or slinging it into our dustbin, this
time he helpfully left a note asking me to collect the package from
the local sorting office or 'request a redelivery' on a subsequent
date using a form on the Royal Mail web site.

As I am quite lazy, I went for the latter option, and requested
redelivery for two days later. The Xmas parcel duly arrived on the
prescribed date so that was fine. Well done to the Royal Mail for
making the redelivery request option available online. Less work for
me. A little more work for them. Everyone's happy.

A full 10 days later, I was a little perplexed to receive the
following email from Royal Mail. At first, I assumed it was a feedback
request to 'Please rate our service' but no, it wasn't.

> Subject: Redelivery response

> If you are now in receipt of your redelivered item, thank you for
> using our on-line redelivery service and please delete this email.

Ah OK so I can safely delete this email message as my parcel has been
successfully redelivered but let's read on just out of idle curiosity.

> Dear Sir or Madam

> Thank you for requesting redelivery of your item.

> Your local delivery office received your request and after searching
> for your item was unable to locate it. This could be because you have
> either already collected the item from the delivery office or it has
> been redelivered.

> If this is not the case may I firstly apologise for any
> inconvenience you have been caused and for information on what to do
> next please visit our website at www.royalmail.com or contact Customer
> Services on 08457 740 740

I had to read this correspondence three times before I was able to
parse the words - 'Your local delivery office received your request
and after searching for your item was unable to locate it'. Eh ? But
the local delivery office did receive my request and actioned it. The
redelivery request had a number associated with it so why didn't they
update the status with 'Redelivery scheduled for '19/12' ?

The next sentence is also rather odd - 'This could be because you have
either already collected the item from the delivery office or it has
been redelivered.' Somehow this implication of the first statement is
that this state of confusion may partially be my fault for having the
temerity to visit the local sorting office as requested to collect my
parcel. Again, it's clear the Royal Mail has no idea what actually
happened to this parcel. For all they know, it's sitting at the bottom
of my tall, black wheelie bin under two heavy sacks of Christmas
rubbish imminently destined for landfill.

However, even though the Royal Mail has no idea what happened to my
parcel, I can rest easy - 'If this is not the case may I firstly
apologise for any inconvenience you have been caused and for
information on what to do next, please visit our website or contact
Customer Services on 08457 740 740'.

So, if my parcel hadn't been successfully re-delivered or I hadn't
collected it in person, this email from Royal Mail Customer Services
hardly inspires confidence that they will inform me with any degree of
certainty what to do next.
