---
date: '2011-02-09 12:25:24'
categories:
    - Web 2.0
    - twitter
    - uk
title: Sarah Baskerville's hidden agenda
layout: post
comments: true
---
[Sarah Baskerville](http://baskersworld.wordpress.com/about/) is a
civil servant who works for the Department of Transport in London.

Back in November, there was a minor storm in a teacup when the Daily
Mail caught Sarah caught posting the shocking revelation to Twitter
that she 'Had a hangover' whilst at work. In addition, she
occasionally had the temerity to dare to question Government policy.

Unless you are a Daily Mail reader, none of this is very newsworthy. I
suspect the vast majority of people with a Twitter account have posted
[inane drivel](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2008/04/29/a-brief-history-of-inane-drivel)
along the lines of 'At work. Hungover. Need coffee'.

It's clear from reading her [blog](http://baskersworld.wordpress.com/)
that Sarah Baskerville is an intelligent, educated,
[experienced](http://uk.linkedin.com/in/sarahbaskerville) lady who
cares about her job and is passionate about improving things. Why -
she even gave up her own time on a Sunday to attend a work related
[conference](http://baskersworld.wordpress.com/2010/12/08/once-more-unto-the-breach-dear-friends-linkedgov/)
so I certainly don't begrudge her tweeting from her workplace. There,
but for the grace of God, and all that.

Nor do I really care that she dares to criticise Government policy -
I'd rather that than some mindless, faceless drone implementing
Government policy unquestioningly - or that she admits she is looking
forward to going home after a hard day. Who doesn't ?

What I find interesting about this story is the fact that Sarah
Baskerville then proceeded to lodge two
[complaints](http://www.pcc.org.uk/news/index.html?article=NjkzNQ==)
with the Press Complaints Commission (PCC) about the Independent on
Sunday's (not the Daily Mail) subsequent
[coverage](http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/politics/the-hounding-of-baskerville-2133666.html)
of a small selection of Sarah's [postings](http://twitter.com/Baskers)
on Twitter.

In her complaint, Baskerville claimed that she had a 'reasonable
expectation that my [Twitter] messages...would be published only to my
followers'.

As someone active in multiple social networks (Baskerville's Web site
[portal](http://baskers.net/) lists a total of 20 social networks), it
is simply inconceivable that she didn't know how the Twitter service
worked and a Tweet was immediately posted and visible on a public Web
site on the Internet.

Baskerville has even written an excellent
[article](http://baskersworld.wordpress.com/some-thoughts/) about the
use of social netwoking tools in Government and how they could be used
to engage more openly with the public so she clearly understands how
Twitter et al function and how these services disseminate information
quickly to a wide audience.

Sarah Baskerville isn't some 16 year old school leaver working in
Greggs bakery posting on Facebook that 'Mr. Grimsdyke told me off for
being late again. I hate that man' and then being surprised when she
subsequently receives a complimentary 'steak bake' together with her
P45.

If Sarah Baskerville truly wanted her messages to be visible to her
Followers, she could have easily have achieved this using a private
Twitter feed but I suspect she simply didn't bother because she
thought no-one was listening.

Of course, not many people click through to read the small print when
they rush over to sign up on Twitter to follow Jonathan Ross. However,
maybe Sarah should take time to read the full version of the Twitter
[Terms of Service](https://twitter.com/tos)

> The Content you submit, post, or display will be able to be viewed
> by other users of the Services and through third party services and
> websites (go to the > account settings page to control who sees your
> Content).

The same warning is even summarised in a top tip - 'What you say on
Twitter may be viewed all around the world instantly' which, for most
people, is exactly the point.

I suspect Sarah Baskerville was fully aware of this possibility but
didn't bother as she freely admits she simply didn't expect to be
'targeted' (her words) by the Daily Mail and subsequently by the
Independent on Sunday.

The original news story broke in November and it appears Sarah
Baskerville still has her job and I sincerely hope she doesn't get
dismissed over this episode.

Yesterday, the PCC
[rejected](http://www.pcc.org.uk/news/index.html?article=NjkzNQ==)
both of Baskerville's complaints agreeing with the Independent's
damning assertion:

> The complainant was not, said the newspaper, "someone who for some
> reason was able to use the technology but unable to realise the
> consequences of making her life so public.

However, I also suspect Sarah Baskerville lodged her complaint with
the PCC in order to prolong her 15 minutes of fame, thinking that she
was striking a hammer blow for freedom on behalf of all individual
bloggers and workplace tweeters everywhere. Winning her case would
result in media coverage, worldwide gratitude and acclaim and somehow
make a name for herself.

She certainly succeeded in doing that. The name is 'idiot'.
