---
title: Oracle newbies, wizards and gurus
layout: post
comments: true
date: '2005-10-29 21:57:08'
categories:
    - oracle
---
I recently stumbled upon Lisa Dobson's Oracle Newbies
[blog](http://newbiedba.blogspot.com/). Firstly, although I have never
met Lisa, I admire her for two reasons. Firstly, she is about to give
a presentation at the UK Oracle User Group in Birmingham. I am a good
deal older than Lisa and the prospect of presenting to a large number
of 'grumpy old men' would fill me with absolute dread.

Secondly, I really like Lisa's rather self deprecating, modest
statement on her profile

*I've been an Oracle DBA for 3 years, so still consider myself
a'Newbie'!*

In my various jobs, I have met several people working with Oracle with
less than three years experience who are variously described (either
by others or themselves) as gurus and would take serious offence if
anyone ever had the temerity to describe them as a 'newbie'.

Some of these people are indeed experienced, knowledgeable,
approachable, flexible, adaptable and eager to learn and perhaps, just
as importantly, to share their knowledge and teach others.

Others are undoubtedly very clever people but are somewhat narrow
minded in their outlook and suffer from tunnel vision. These types are
normally the self-appointed wizards but viewed as insular and
unapproachable by others. They will improve performance almost
instantly by adding or dropping an index, or gathering statistics but
fail to communicate the fact to anyone but merely bask in the glory
and yet higher, even more elevated status.

One aspect of my job that I enjoy is that I often visit a client for a
short period (2-3 days) so I am blissfully ignorant of the politics,
history and personalities involved. In addition, I simply do not have
the time (or access) to use email to communicate. Instead I find I get
more achieved quicker if I meet people face to face or call them on
the telephone to find out information.

This can lead to some interesting situations. Often, the same
questions couched in a slightly different way from a fresh face can
lead to a different response. For example, a simple request to patch
Oracle to 9.2.0.7 or to simply start the OEM Agent that has been
repeatedly requested but ignored (or denied) for many months can
miraculously become feasible almost immediately.

It is surprising how many so called technical issues actually turn out
to be about communication.[\ ](http://www.technorati.com/tags/Oracle)
