---
title: Resurrection of a gadget
layout: post
comments: true
date: '2005-11-07 17:10:59'
categories:
    - gadget
    - palm
    - pda
---
I used to have a Psion 5. This was a neat little personal organiser in
a clam shell case with a mini QWERTY style keyboard. The Psion even
had a port of the 'vi' editor available. However, after the novelty
wore off, I didn't use it much other than a few shortlived pointless
games and as a glorified address book when sending out my Christmas
cards.

Years later, I worked with some young, trendy individuals who wore
Diesel trousers who taunted me as they all gradually acquired new,
shiny Palm PDA's. Of course, I simply couldn't face them with my aged
Psion so I went out and bought a Palm Vx.

Inevitably, the initial novelty soon wore off, the young things
upgraded to different designer trousers and yet another trendy mobile
phone (with camera) and I didn't use my Palm Vx much either apart from
as a glorified address book for the annual Christmas card list.

Anyway, over the weekend, I decided to dust off the Palm and see
whether it might be useful for capturing ideas for blogs. As the Palm
had lain unused for so long, the batteries were totally dead and the
device had been reset to its factory status. I performed a
synchronisation with Palm Desktop using the Infrared link to check the
communications were working.

Then I went to re-install Beyond Contacts from
[DataViz](http://www.dataviz.com/) which synchronises data from
Microsoft Outlook with the Palm. All my details were stored in my
online profile at DataViz, so I was able to quickly obtain my
registration key and upgrade to the latest version for free.

So now I can use the Graffiti application to enter information into
the Palm, synchronise to my PC and then into the blog. I wonder if
this will be quicker and more convenient than scribbling with a pen
onto the back of an envelope. We will see.
