---
date: '2006-03-16 15:24:18'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: I come to praise WordPress
layout: post
comments: true
---

...not to bury them.

I have been unable to administer this blog for a couple of days.
However, thanks to the unstinting efforts of [Ryan](http://boren.nu/)
and [Donncha](http://blogs.linux.ie/xeer/index.php), I am pleased to say
the problem is now resolved.

I was trapped inside a recursive, infinite, endless loop hell which
severely tested my sense of
[humour](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/03/12/wordpress-humour/)
after 28 minutes. In fact, I was positively irritated, frustrated and
tending towards 'annoyed'.

I was aware there were a few issues at WordPress following recent
changes. Initially, I assumed my problems were related and just waited.
However, then I saw people merrily posting away on their WordPress blogs
(and not just Scobleizer who has a custom template and a dedicated
server farm).

I tried a few things myself (cleared cookies, different browsers,
different computers) but all to no avail. I started a self-help group
for affected bloggers. I scanned digg, reddit, tailrank memorandum,
Google (and the BBC World Service) in vain for mention of this
catastrophe in the blogosphere.

I posted a few rapid fire entries on my new shiny blog (the soon to be,
sadly, departed
'[whiteside.wordpress.com](http://whiteside.wordpress.com/)'). I thought
up a fantastic new tag line - 'interminable bytestream'. I used the
[Performancing for Firefox](http://performancing.com/firefox) blog
editor which was excellent and was also impressed by the recently
released [Metrics](http://performancing.com/metrics/start).

However, I persisted reading and posting to the WordPress support forum
and eventually got into an email dialog with Ryan. His email actually
'thanked me for my report' (as if I was somehow doing him a favour),
apologised for 'breaking my blog' (as though I am a paying customer),
described the progress so far (interesting) and assured me they were
'trying to put it right' (reassuring).

And within a short period, they did.
