---
date: '2006-04-17 16:14:32'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: more wireless fun
layout: post
comments: true
---

Buoyed by my recent, successful firmware
[upgrade](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/04/11/wireless-upgrade/)
of my Linksys wireless router, and for the sake of completeness, I
decided to upgrade the driver software of the Linksys Wireless USB
adapters to the latest version (2.0.2).

In addition, prompted by my wife's perceptive question of 'Is it not
working because someone has hacked into it ?', I also decided to
increase the security on my embryonic wirleless network by disabling
SSID broadcasts and enabling MAC address filtering so only specified
PC's can connect.

Apologies to all my neighbours. This is probably undue paranoia on my
part but if only you could have provided demerara sugar instead of
fobbing me off with caster sugar all those years ago, none of this would
have been necessary.

These simple configuration changes and software upgrades went
surprisingly smoothly. Until, of course, I came to complete the very
final task of upgrading the driver of USB adapter \#2. This USB adapter
is identical to the (upgraded) USB adapter \#1, was purchased around the
same time and was working perfectly on the old 1.x driver.

Inevitably, when I upgraded this driver, it stubbornly refused to
connect to the wireless network. I uninstalled, reinstalled, rebooted,
reinstated the original driver to confirm the adapter was still working
in the new wireless configuration but, still no joy. So this irritating
minor issue will now continue to nag away like a dripping tap until I
can be bothered to revisit it.
