---
date: '2006-11-01 01:45:17'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: trumpet blowing
layout: post
comments: true
---

Doug [Burns](http://oracledoug.com/index.html) posts a typically honest
[article](http://oracledoug.com/serendipity/index.php?/archives/1116-Blowing-my-own-trumpet.html)
about the art of self-promotion and the issue of references. Personally,
I think Doug's blog is itself an excellent tribute to his technical
competence, his ability to communicate and share information as well as
offering an insight into his personality.

I must confess that my manager's Inbox is not overflowing with glowing
testimonials from colleagues and customers, let alone unsolicited ones.
I used to reassure myself that this was because IT managers are
exceptionally busy people with (justifiably) high expectations when
paying for expensive consultants. Nowadays I just put it down to my lack
of technical ability.

However, occasionally a customer will say a heartfelt 'Thank you. That
was really useful' after a onsite visit which is probably the most
satisfying part of my job.

Recently, a person commented on this blog asking about issues with
Siebel and UTC. I tried to help directly via email and received a reply
thanking me for taking the time to answer his questions. Of course, I
deleted the original comment as I have no desire to turn this site into
'asknorman.siebel.com' but his words of thanks were much appreciated.

Many years ago, during an IT slump, I was trying to secure a contract as
a Unix/C programmer. I had an interview at Ingres but was unsuccessful.
A week later, the agent called me. The opportunity was suddenly and
unexpectedly back on and 'could I possibly start on Monday ?'.

Unusually, the agent insisted on meeting me in person and told me that,
for various reasons, the first choice candidate didn't really work out.
Consequently, he was let go after one week and I was to be on probation
for one week with this very demanding client.

The agent proceeded to call me every lunchtime and again at home every
single night to discuss progress, technical issues, clamouring for any
verbal, implied or written feedback from the client about my technical
abilities.

Judgment day duly arrived on Friday. As I nervously approached to get
the verdict, the manager said 'I've got to leave now, Norman but thanks
for all your efforts this week. See you on Monday'. Probably the best
reference I never had.
