---
date: '2007-07-04 08:17:02'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: 'SEO wars: Google versus Yahoo!'
layout: post
comments: true
---

When I
[moved](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/09/30/from-wordpresscom-to-wordpressorg/)
this blog from hosted Wordpress , I submitted the site to Google and
Yahoo! After that, I noted the respective crawlers indexing the blog and
thought no more of it.

I subsequently registered the site in Google
[Webmaster](http://www.google.co.uk/webmasters/) and Yahoo! [Site
Explorer](http://siteexplorer.search.yahoo.com/) and added a
[sitemap](http://www.arnebrachhold.de/2005/06/05/google-sitemaps-generator-v2-final)
to help the robots index my site more efficiently. After a while, it was
clear that Google was responsible for the vast
[majority](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/2006/10/30/the-only-search-engine-in-town/)
of traffic to my humble blog. Mainly 'one-hit wonders' but welcome
nevertheless.

Today, while dabbling with various reports in Google Analytics, I
compared the performance of the two major search engines over the past
nine months. [![Google
Search](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/user/files/2007/07/google-small.JPG)](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/user/files/2007/07/google-small.JPG "Google Search")
[![Yahoo!
Search](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/user/files/2007/07/yahoo-small.JPG)](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/user/files/2007/07/yahoo-small.JPG "Yahoo! Search")

The statistics are quite staggering, to me at least. So much so, I have
been moved to include inline images (which took me 14 hours and they're
still not right) to reinforce the point.

Over a period of nine months, Google (17,562) absolutely hammers Yahoo!
(413) into the ground.

So then I started to get curious. Why does Google do such a better job
of indexing my blog ?

The standard test I use is to search for a set of keywords from a recent
blog entry and see whether it appears on page 1.

For this test, I used "under the covers at Wimbledon' from a post made
last Sunday. On Google, this appeared as the first post in the first
page. I already know that Google is very timely at indexing my blog. If
I post an blog article with an internal link (pingback), my RSS feed of
Google inbound links notifies me instantly.

Here are the Google results. The blog article is the first entry
displayed on the front page. [![Google
Search](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/user/files/2007/07/google-search.JPG)](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/user/files/2007/07/google-search.JPG "Google Search")

OK. So now for Yahoo!

Here is the Yahoo! equivalent. Nothing for the actual blog article on
page 1. However, the main blog page is listed which happens to contain a
snapshot reference to the article title.

Which is more relevant ? Which looks a better match for the actual
search terms ? Which one would you be tempted to click on ? Which site
would you advertise on ? [![Yahoo
Search](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/user/files/2007/07/yahoo-search.JPG)](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/user/files/2007/07/yahoo-search.JPG "Yahoo Search")

Next, I went to Yahoo! Site Explorer to see whether the actual blog
article was indexed yet. [![Yahoo tardy
updates](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/user/files/2007/07/yahoo-missing.JPG)](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/user/files/2007/07/yahoo-missing.JPG "Yahoo tardy updates")

No it wasn't. So, an interesting experiment and I am sure SEO magicians
in white hats will arrive promptly to point out the error of my ways.

A footnote : The Yahoo! chart does appear to shows worrying signs of
life from mid-May. The number of daily referrals jump from almost zero
to almost a whole 10 visitors in a single day !

Come to think of it, Live.com (previously known as Dead.com) has also
recently sparked into life, rising from the floor to reach the dizzy
heights of a spike of 3 daily visitors. [![Live
Search](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/user/files/2007/07/live-search.JPG)](http://www.nbrightside.com/blog/user/files/2007/07/live-search.JPG "Live Search")

Google beware !
