---
date: '2007-12-24 20:01:47'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: sporting predictions for 2008
layout: post
comments: true
---

January - Andy Murray reaches the quarter finals of the Australian Open
but mysteriously withdraws citing a 'bad hair day'. An inquiry is
immediately launched into irregular gambling patterns preceding the
match and his choice of shampoo. Manchester United triumph 7-4 in a
thrilling FA cup-tie at Villa Park.

February - England beat Switzerland 5-0 at Wembley in a friendly. Frank
Lampard scores a goal that is not deflected. Fabio Capello is hailed as
a footballing genius

March - Liverpool lose 2-0 to Inter Milan in the Champions League.
Rafael Benitez's head explodes. Andrew Flintoff is reinstated as England
captain and Ian Botham is appointed Chairman of Selectors after the pair
clinch victory in the opening test against New Zealand. The Kiwi side
are later found drifting on a orange pedalo, kept afloat by empty kegs
of beer. The New Zealand cricket board are fined $5,000 for the late
return of the hire vessel.

April - Paula Radcliffe astounds the athletics world by giving birth to
her second child at the 23 mile marker in the London marathon. Radcliffe
finishes the race in a creditable 5th place.

May - Arsenal win the Premiership. Jens Lehmann wins the prestigious
David May award for 'Best fringe player who intrudes on celebrations and
gets in all the photos' award.

June - Rioting is reporting in Liverpool, Newcastle, Birmingham and East
London by football fans with no major football tournament to attend.

July - In a bizarre twist, Tiger Woods wins the British Grand Prix and
Lewis Hamilton wins the British Open while filming for the reality TV
series 'Faking It'.

August - Great Britain win a solitary gold medal in the Bejing Olympics.

September - England lose 1-0 away to Kazakhstan in the opening World Cup
qualifier. Fabio Capello is derided by the press as a hapless Italian
ice-cream salesman, dismissed by the FA who appoint an Englishman
(Borat) as his replacement.

October - After a poor start to the season, that leaves Chelsea hovering
over the relegation zone, Roman Abramovich jettisons Avram Grant as
manager, takes responsibility for team affairs, appoints Shevchenko as
assistant manager and immediately signs Kaka, Ronaldinho, Ronaldo,
Fabregas and Jens Lehmann.

November - Rafa Benitez is appointed manager of Lyon in a dream
partnership with Gerard Houlier. French media carries reports that the
two men have never been sighted in the same place at the same time.

December - England beat Belarus 2-1 in a World Cup Qualifier. Borat is
hailed as a footballing genius and the media salute England's golden age
who will surely lift the World Cup in South Africa.
