---
date: '2007-09-28 21:40:14'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: FAC51
layout: post
comments: true
---

Enjoyed this BBC4 [program](http://www.bbc.co.uk/musictv/factory/) on
the history of Factory with lots of interviews with Tony Wilson, Peter
Saville, Vini Reilly, Shaun and Paul Ryder, Stephen Morris, Peter Hook
and Bernard Sumner.

So many amusing anecdotes and quotes:

New Order insisted on playing
[live](http://uk.youtube.com/watch?v=4CghX1dKBN0) on TOTP and,
unusually, 'Blue Monday' promptly fell down the charts thanks to their
abysmal performance (Sumner's appalling vocals).

Martin Hannett's unconventional approach to production: 'He used to piss
the drummer off so he would hit the drums harder.'

Factory lost money on every single copy of 'Blue Monday' thanks to the
prohibitive costs of the sleeve.

Peter Hook worked as crew at the Hacienda for 10 quid an hour and his
wages were paid by New Order royalties.

The sandpaper sleeve for The Durutti Column's 'The Return of' may have
destroyed the adjacent records but many customers found the record
itself was totally damaged.

A really weird, early
[photograph](http://joydivision.homestead.com/pic53.html) of Warsaw with
Peter Hook attired in black leather complete with moustache and cap.

Happy Mondays being dispatched to a heroin free Barbados to record an
album only to discover crack cocaine was freely available on the island.
> 'Never did any drugs. A lot of people think he did because on some of
> the TV performances he looks like he's on some sort of drugs because
> of his arms but he wasn't on any drugs at all. That was just him
> losing himself in the music' - Sumner on Curtis
>
> 'The doctor says to him: 'I want you to be quiet. I want you to take
> it easy. No late nights. No alcohol. No drugs. Oh what do you do by
> the way ?' 'Oh I'm a librarian. No I'm a singer in a post punk rock
> band.' He didn't really have much chance, did he ?' - Hook on Curtis'
> diagnosis with epilepsy
