---
date: '2009-09-18 11:31:09'
categories:
    - uncategorised
title: Posterous leveraging Tumblr themes
layout: post
comments: true
---

I have experimented at various times with both
[Tumblr](http://tumblr.com/) and [Posterous](http://posterous.com/)
which are hosted blog services. I tend to view them as useful services
for a scrapbook style blog, a linkblog, a lifestream or even a fully
fledged blog. If I was starting a blog today, I would probably use one
or the other.

Posterous, in particular, has been getting a lot of coverage recently
and I like the ease of use, the 'Post by Email' facility and continue to
follow developments with interest.

I often describe Posterous as a 'blog for people who don't want a blog'.
For example, Uncle Harry doesn't even know what a blog is and certainly
doesn't need a blog. However, Uncle Harry is also perfectly capable of
attaching photos of his sailing holiday in Greece and emailing them to
his daughter, brother, wife, friends and colleagues. He could do this
using Posterous and, lo and behold, without even knowing it, he now has
a blog.

Posterous is a hosted blog service and until recently, was limited to a
single, universal theme. This didn't particularly bother me as I quite
liked the plain, minimal looking Posterous design.

I also felt the default Posterous theme actually helped to reinforce the
Posterous 'brand'. Whenever you encountered a Posterous blog, you could
immediately recognise it as such.

However, custom themes were a frequently requested enhancement by
(potential) users so Posterous have finally added
[support](http://blog.posterous.com/posterous-theming-its-here-its-live-and-its-t)
for your own themes including pre-built designs, custom header images,
full HTML customisation and interestingly, the use of Tumblr themes.

Now I suspect that supporting 'Tumblr' style themes out of the box was a
master stroke. Posterous users immediately have a wealth of pre-built,
attractive looking themes available off the shelf, free of charge.

Tumblr have even helpfully created a theme
[repository](http://www.tumblr.com/themes/recent) for Posterous users.
You just find a Tumblr theme you like, copy and paste the HTML, dump it
into Posterous and you're done.

You now have a lovely, stylish professional looking Posterous blog that
looks identical to a lovely, stylish professional looking Tumblr blog.

I love the way
[TechCrunch](http://www.techcrunch.com/2009/09/17/posterous-adds-theme-support-continues-to-grow/)
uses the the term 'leverage' to describe the addition of this (almost
seamless - some blocks are not supported) integration with the Tumblr
theme engine.

Of course, all themes are just HTML and CSS but I can't help wondering
whether the Tumblr development team and their own band of loyal and
passionate users feel quite the same way about this wonderful, new
addition from Posterous.
