---
date: '2011-01-05 14:57:00'
categories:
    - uk
    - hunour
title: to markdown or not to markdown
layout: post
comments: true
---

[Steve Rubel](http://www.steverubel.com/) sings the
[praises](http://www.steverubel.com/markdown-is-a-skill-every-modern-communicator)
of [Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) and good
old fashioned text editors.

I agree and for a long time have dithered over whether to write all of
my blog posts in Markdown. This makes sense as it simplifies the
syntax and theoretically should make writing content easier and
quicker. I was particularly struck by Caius Durling's
[use](http://caiustheory.com/view-raw-source) of Markdown on his
Habari blog and the use of the plaintext plugin to reveal the raw
Markdown.

However, despite experimenting with both the Markdown
[plugin](https://trac.habariproject.org/habari-extras/browser/plugins/habarimarkdown?rev=746&order=name)
for [Habari](http://habariproject.org/en/) and later the Markdown
filter [module](http://drupal.org/project/markdown) for Drupal, I have
actually never taken the plunge.

I think the subconscious reasons behind for my reluctance to bite the
bullet and fully embrace Markdown are:

1. Knowing the subset of HTML tags I commonly use, I am finally
relatively comfortable composing posts in raw HTML.

2. Although Markdown uses a simple, easy to learn syntax (which is
rather the whole point after all), the Markdown markup would be a
slightly different syntax to learn and master.

3. I am (justifiably in my case) worried that I would constantly
produce incorrect Markdown syntax and hence generate flawed HTML so I
would be forever reviewing the generated HTML which again would be
time consuming and self-defeating. A side by side split, live screen
Markdown/HTML [preview](http://wmd-editor.com/examples/splitscreen)
would be really useful.I have just discovered the
[Live](http://drupal.org/project/live) module which looks like it
could be used in conjunction with the Markdown filter to create
similar functionality (but only when this module is ported to Drupal
7).

4. Sometimes I embed images from Picasweb or YouTube and I'm not sure
how these HTML embeds would work in Markdown or whether the Markdown
processor will accept raw HTML for these occasional exceptions.

5. Drupal supports different filter types on a per post basis but I
have concerns about attempting to migrate a blog containing a mixture
of HTML and Markdown posts to different blog platforms and I'm hardly
likely to convert 1,000 historic posts to Markdown. However, if the
Markdown is processed and the generated HTML is stored in the
database, this may not be a problem. Another obvious solution is
trying to curb this constant urge to tinker with the underlying
technology powering this blog but that is unlikely to happen.

Anyway, time to stop procrastinating. I have managed to write this
post in Markdown and already I like the modified, simpler syntax, so I
will endeavour to follow Steve Rubel's advice and join the ranks of
the 'modern communicators'.
